  public:: true
  
- # warez
	- vstorrents.org
	-
- # Total Design Pipeline
	- [NAPCAT to-do list](https://rentry.co/napkat)
- # NAPCAT TO-DO
- Puzzle:
	- Total Design is a design system that generates value from its ability to create, analyze, and manipulate large amounts of creative information known as *design patterns.*
	- Total Design is the solution for LEECHSEED's proprietary method of holy deliverance.
	- The cries for deliverance prosecuted by virtuous and smiteful beings from beyond  grows only louder as millions of souls are dragged ever deeper into the maw of scroll psychosis
	- LEECHSEED, a ancient and cryptic order of righteous ultra-dukes is rumored to rise again, resurrected by  a mysterious hermit-like being of awesome and uncontrollable power. Its name, unknown and unspoken of, but when is only in shivered whispers to morbid ears, *the Skipper return, god help the grift*
- ## State of the Industry
	- The primary export industry of America was entertainment until the late 2010s.
	- Hollywood Production Studios and Distribution Companies in the entertainment industry mastered a value pipeline that proved profitable for half a century.
	- These products are movies, tv shows, and a host of other associated cross-industry products integrated vertical revenue streams.
	- 'Legacy Media' is the business model that Hollywood used to rise and overtake the entertainment industry.
	- The model that once proved successful is now faltering after the disruptive technology of streaming services entered the market. 1
	- Legacy Media relied on
		- distribution cartel - movie theaters, tv channels, dvds...legacy media has a controlling stake in every vertical revenue stream.
		- market manipulation - release dates align with quarterly reports
		- labor control - unions have hefty labor costs, and to work in Hollywood, you must be part of a Union.
		- high-risk barrier to entry - By controlling the market, labor, and distribution components of the industry, few attempts to enter the industry were made let alone successful.
		- favorable public relations - Good movies makes it easy for a public to absorb themselves in entertainment rather than scrutinize the behavior and morality of Hollywood
	- Set-up for disruption
		- distribution cartel -
			- the product quality of movies and tv shows trends noticeably downward in 2017-2020.
			- Netflix disrupts the distribution market by releasing a streaming service, where you can watch any movie, anytime you want.
		- market manipulation - the rise in ticket prices forced users to consume selectively rather than emotionally. the lockdown saw an initial rise in Netflix customer base.
		- labor control - operating out of the TMZ, Netflix producers focused on hiring non-labor talent lowering cost of manufacturing.
		- high-risk barrier to entry - Netflix has a stable subscription based service business model allowing the company to manage its risk  and responsibly prioritize quality products
		- favorable public relations - The Me Too movement decapitated the upper levels of Hollywood, and in attempt to mend relations, 'wokeness' rather than humility and grace took over the reigns at Disney in names for profit.
		- ### Technology's Role in Entertainment Industry
		- ### Impact of COVID-19
		- ### Netflix Revolution and On Demand Streaming
		- ### Fall of Corporate Media
		- ### The Power of Culture
		- ### Trans-National Technology Conglomerates
		- ### Weaponized Ignorance and Patterns of Addiction
		- ### Social Media and the Collapse of Virtue
		- ### Corporate Interests over National Security
		- ### TikTok and Foreign Influence
		- ### A Threat Rises in the East
		- ### The End of an Epoch
		-
		- we got complacent and cocky which made us lazy and weak
		- when we least expected, we were attacked, manipulated, and traumatized
		- at our most vulnerable, we are the most dangerous and the most volitile
		- our strength was our unity in diversity, but in weakness diversity is our downfall
		- vision
			- a country who's strength of diversity is united by values
			- a myth and a journey for every American
			- a country who's entry into another epoch is marked by a renaissance of American Art
		- mission
			- create a design system that enables designers to maximize their creative potential in an efficient capacity
			- demonstrate and evolve Total Design thru strategic multi-dimensional product development cycles
			- Create and Manage the Greatest American Intellectual Property since Star Wars
		- values
			- excellence
			- focus
			- curiosity
- ## Requirements
	- 1. A repository for all design patterns of Total Design
		- Design Patterns, aka Knowledge, and the ability to collect, study, and manipulate them are at the core of a creative organizations ability to perform at the peak of its industry as well as survive it.
		- *Without a mind, the soul corrupts.*
		- *Without a brain, the body dies.*
	- 2. Efficient and Tactile Data-Entry
	- 3. Intuitive and Complex Querying
	- 4. Markdown Reporting
	- 5. Horizonal Scalability
- ## 1. Pipeline Development
Puzzle: To design a robust NAPCAT database I first need to understand the processes and participants within the Narrative Design process.  
- ## 2. Department Development
  
custom edit code: poon  
- # NAPCAT metadata tracking
- ## book data
Title  
Author  
ISBN  
- ## NAPCAT metadata
Neighborhood  
Puzzle  
Pattern  
HVU Rating  
- ## Domain Atlas
Country - The Highest Level of Domain Knowledge - consider 'Science'  
State - Biology  
County - Marine Bioilogy  
City - Sharks  
District - Great White Sharks  
Neighborhood - Eating Behavior  
Street - The trope of great white sharks attacking people is a prevalent one in fiction. I want to use a great white shark as a villian with design inspiration from people with real life experiences with them, as well as biological accuracy for appearance sake.   
House Number - What are the best character patterns to extract from this book?  
- i'll need to replace these geographic words with actual UML later
- # Manuals vs Guides
	- ## What's the difference?
	- ### Distinguishing the difference will help to create a robust Book Classification system.
	- A manual is a comprehensive document that provides detailed instructions, procedures, and technical information about a product, system, or process. It aims to offer in-depth knowledge and help users understand and operate the subject matter effectively. Manuals are more extensive, cover various aspects, and assume a certain level of prior knowledge from the users. They are typically used by individuals with expertise in the subject matter.
	- On the other hand, a guide is a more concise and user-friendly document that focuses on providing step-by-step instructions or recommendations for accomplishing specific tasks or goals. Guides are more focused, omitting extraneous information, and catering to a broader audience, including beginners or users who need assistance with specific tasks. They are generally more accessible and easier to understand.
	- ### Manuals Identification Table
	  id:: 64931dce-2931-4f57-b1b3-0b6682c98b12
		- content: product, system, or process.
		- content organization: instructions, procedures, complex information
		- content characteristics: detailed and comprehensive
		- comments: extensive, multiple aspects, assumes prior level of knowledge, meant for experts
	- ### Guides Identification Table
		- content: achievement or completion of specific goals, or tasks
		- content organization: step-by-step instruction, recommendations, anecdotal information
		- content characteristics: concise, readability
		- comments: focused, omits extraneous information, caters to beginners, easily understood
		-
		-
- # Use rentry.co in pattern creation?
	- ## Use Obsidian to replicate patterns
		- - use templates to create pattern templates
	- ## Use rentry.co to create publishable and separated patterns
		- - this fixes the issue
			- - needing to have a polished, sharable
- # BerryMix Checkpoint Recipe
	- [Berrymix Rentry](https://rentry.org/berrymix)
	- Recipe for the "Berrymix" checkpoint:
	- Make sure you have all the models needed, Novel Ai, Stable Diffusion 1.4, Zeipher F111, and r34_e4. All but [Novel Ai](magnet:?xt=urn:btih:5bde442da86265b670a3e5ea3163afad2c6f8ecc) can be found [Here](https://rentry.org/sdmodels)
	- Open the Checkpoint Merger tab in the web ui
	- Set the Primary Model (A) to Novel Ai
	- Set the Secondary Model (B) to Zeipher F111
	- Set the Tertiary Model (C) to Stable Diffusion 1.4
	- Enter in a name that you will recognize
	- Set the Multiplier (M) slider all the way to the right, at "1"
	- Select "Add Difference"
	- Click "Run" and wait for the process to complete
	- Now set the Primary Model (A) to the new checkpoint you just made (Close the cmd and restart the webui, then refresh the web page if you have issues with the new checkpoint not being an option in the drop down)
	- Set the Secondary Model (B) to r34_e4
	- Ignore Tertiary Model (C) (I've tested it, it wont change anything)
	- Enter in the name of the final mix, something like "Berry's Mix" ;)
	- Set Multiplier (M) to "0.25"
	- Select "Weighted Sum"
	- Click "Run" and wait for the process to complete
	- Restart the Web Ui and reload the page just to be safe
	- At the top left of the web page click the "Stable Diffusion Checkpoint" drop down and select the Berry's Mix.ckpt (or whatever you named it)
	- redhair cooking stew in apron.
