  public:: true
  
- # a roguelike fps deck builder
	- vampire survivors, except FPS.
	- an PVE vs PVE level styles
		- whoever finishes the level first wins.
	- Craft decks that cater to certain paly styles
	- perhaps like that league of legends card game, a hero shooter fps
	- where each character has a specific playstyle with an associated deck of cards, with an associated damage/class type.
	- Its like that one game mode that used to be in Destiny 2 called Crucible
	- One mechanic could be something like Eve's 'nullsec'
	- Where one goes to get game ending/winning gear but will run into the enemy.
	- The map can be similar to the Summoner's Rift. Or Arena style perhaps.
	- Enemies are hordelike but function more like squads of terrorists.
	- Players are 'heroic' or 'juggernaughtesque'
	- Every death, you can re-roll your build
	- Spend cash to upgrade weapons or armor
	- Win conditions
		- most points at the end of 15 minutes
		- enemy base captured
		- highest level
	- Front line mechanic
		- instead of a river, like in summoner's rift, its a trench line
		- mobs spawn at base and 'pool' at the trench line.
		- The player can choose to 'blow the whistle' in which the pooled mobs will hop the line and attempt to capture the FOB opposite of the player
	- What makes the game fun
		- cinematic, 'things have come to a head' moments
			- two trench rushes timed at once
		- crafting an rng draw deck that shouldn't work with your character
		- spectacle moments
		- Gaben's philosophy of fun and interactivity
	- Like in summoner's rift, when an enemy tower falls, the front line moves dynamically but within the meta, not necessarily hard coded in the game.
	- Each FOB can be upgraded with defenses by spending money.
	- Money is acquired thru several methods
		- killing enemy mobs
		- killing enemy players
		- leveling up
		- thru card mechanics
		- destroying enemy fob's
	- About the jungle
		- the jungle can be considered hostile resources which can be neutralized and retrofitted to generate resources or money.
		- The enemy can destroy player's jungle resources, but once destroyed, they cannot be retrofitted by the enemy or the player.
	- Fog of War
		- Fog of War is an influential mechanic which can play a massive role in the outcome of a game.
		- I love how in League of legends, vision or reconnaissance of the enemy's position is vital to how the player acts.
	- Time to Kill should vary depending on the level of the player.
	-
- # Trepang 2 gameplay notes
	- weapons should be *highlighted* on the ground when dropped by enemies
		- this goes doubly if low ammo is a feature of the game.
	- *weapon customization* should keep the principle of *min/max* when outfitting accessories.
		- there is an enemy that equipped a *laser sight* with a *suppressor*on a pistol.
			- the *laser sight*
				- + accuracy
				- - stealth
			- the *suppressor*
				- - accuracy
				- + stealth
			- **according to the game's own rules, the accessories cancels each other's buffs**
		- the simplest way to solve the illogical outfit is to only equip one or the other.
		- another solution would involve complexifying the weapon accessory system as well as the weapon system. Either thru looter/shooter rarity exception mechanics or otherwise.
	- The AI in the game feel *overly aggressive* however, this might just play into the whole *bullet time* feature
		- I feel cyberpunk 2077 does a much better job at doing this
	- The environment feels like the backrooms
		- there isn't a clear direction in which to progress in
		- every area looks like each other area and it makes it difficult to understand if I'm retreading ground
		- Ultimately, it *affects immersion*
	- The weapon handling is *very good*
		- reload times on the weapons feel good
		- 55.6 takes a lot longer to reload than 9mm, but it makes up for its higher damage output.
		- The *interactions and handling with each weapon are designed with each one's specialized purpose*
		- SMGs are fast reloading, high sustained rate of fire, but low accuracy at longer ranges, and runs thru ammo very fast.
	- The game features melee combat actions and movement that are typically not included in similar FPS titles
		- a flying kick
		- a pistol whip or rifle butt movement
		- a sliding kick
	- The melee combat and player movement are *underdeveloped*
		- To sprint, there is a delay to the speed increase, but there is no windup or momentum delay.
			- Refer to Apex Legends for movement
			- Even Cyberpunk 2077 kind of does it better.
		- The kick lacks *punch* or *kinetic feedback* for the player.
			- the kick feels like I'm floating and just throwing my leg in the air.
			- Refer to how Cyberpunk animates punches and how it the game transmits impact and sensation thru the FOV
			- And also, how contact, audio, environmental interactions play into the game feel.
	- Overall, all of these small details culminate into an overarching issue with the game: The concepts of claustrophobic environment and high level of player movement clash with each each other philosophically.
		- This phenomenon of design choice mismatch proliferates thru many aspects of the game.
		- However, this does not take away from how fun it is really.
		- What it does highlight, is how game design experience highly affects the outcome of a game whether it be a AAA studio or an indie development team.
		- *Fit and Finish* ultimately are the true signals of expertise in the game industry. Mere understanding of concepts does not signal mastery.
		- Unfortunately understanding how something works does not equate to elegant assembly of creative ideas found in design mastery.
	- Music is fucking awesome though.
	- Loading times are out of this world good
	- There isn't any *ADS*, I wish there was ADS. It feels standard now for any game
