  public:: true
  
- # Codename: Spit
	- A sexual thriller along the lines of Mx86
	- Doctor - Jebb Mason
	- Detective - Carlie Cole
	- New Girl - Annie Greene
	- Antagonist - Miss Fortune
	- ## plot progression
	- Inside out BDSM scene at the beginning, exchange of money, very vague, focus on the raw emotion and darkness of it all
	- next scene is in all saints where Doctor is working as a barista
		- sees a girl with a really subby bf
		- gets her a real drink, he says something to the effect of 'a joke'
		- she sees his hands and tattoo, and says she's a fan of his work
		- he reluctantly agrees to do a scene with her even if its his first time
		- when he goes up to the register again, another woman comes to the register, this time its a detective, very judgemsnd very forceful with her assertions. She is there to shut down his perversions and his destruction of women
		- after that, the doctor meets the new girl at a college party, there he has a test for her, he asks her to put in a remote plug, and the warmer she gets to a book, the harder it is.
			- she has to get the book from the girl holding it.
			- the girl teases her and just before she's about to cum, she gives her the book
			- she then goes to the bathroom, busts a nut all over the book
			- the girl comes in and she tries to apologize, but then the girl kisses her on the forehead and gives her a cellphone
			- the doctor says 'good job' and tells her to read the book, and only when she has read the book and understands it, will she be ready
	- transition scene here
	- Annie says she's ready
		- montage of both the doctor getting ready and annie getting ready
	- Annie does an interview scene where we see her face
	- Transition to Doctor's similar interaction where he is shamed and removed during his doctoral dissertation
	- Miss Fortune, the antagonist, the partner of doctor, discovers his ramen shop
	- Now that she's found him, she wants to work things out on their research project.
		- MF claims that doctor stole all the research and ran, leaving her destitute.
		- Its more complicated than that
		- MF pushed doctor too far, and repeatedly as well. Thus why he ran away.
	- The antagonist arc consists of Miss Fortune winning over Doctor, in fact, allowing him to trust her in the end.
	- Unfortunately, in the end, she ends up hijacking the whole project at the dissertation meeting, only ackwnolging the doctor as an assistant.
	- Here it is revealed the full extent of Miss Fortune's captive of doctor, she had him involuntarily as a 24/7 slave. She is able to order him, hypnotize him, etc. At this point, she gets everything.
	- The purpose of the detective is to represent the shameful and suspicious side of society. At first, she is billed as the antagonist. However, what she is granted though, is the **obligatory scene** where she and the doctor confront each other.
		- it is at this point, the doctor teaches the detective everything he knows. and here is when the detective is able to confront her demons at the police office.
	- The ending results in the doctor coming forward and telling his story as a victim, the detective using eye-for-an-eye to bring the doctor to his old dissertation table to file a dissent in regards to the new program where MF is.
	- In the end, after all this, the doctor has a chance to face his peers again, to justify his study, but this time, not alone, but with the compatriots he made along the way.
	-
