  public:: true
  
-
- # Race and Gaming Studies
- Its Black Voices in Gaming this month.
- What Brown Voices in Gaming?
- 'Its not your turn yet,' said the White Voice.
- 'Your turn comes later this year,' said the White Voice.
- 'Who decides who gets to have a voice?' asked the Brown Voice.
- 'As the builder of the colored voice construct, leaders of the free world, and arbiters of the academic ivory tower, we, in all terms of fairness, believe we fairly repre
-
- # Flow Studies
	- Flow is a fragile state achieved first only by serendipity. Only when it is recognized and pursued by the user can it be replicable. Often flow state is found in a specific area of practice. One that is a multitude of different academic studies that must be taken into consideration when attempting to achieve dat feeling again.
	- ## Flow ESports
	- An example: Valorant, a multiplayer video game that highly focuses on the social reward of 'being better.' Unlike other types of flow, Valorant is related to sports more than lets say, writing for pleasure or masturbation. Valorant is one could identify as a 'wicked' flow.
	- ### The Wicked Flow
	- Wicked as in, purposely elusive. Elusive in the sense of fulfilling the user's need to flow. In this case we'll also file 'flow' under the term 'fun.' Purposefully being defined as the social zeitgeist acting as a barrier or gate to flow for the user.
	- ### Game Developers More Like Cult Leaders
	- The social zeitgeist can be defined with several phenomena. Firstly, the game developer, Riot Games', outward facing social media invokes, supports, and defines the collective identity of the community. The control of the community identity is wholly defined in reference to the spirit of the game, the driving value and sentimentality that developers use when designing a game. This 'esprit de la gamer' is a contentious concept that like many things human, modern, and rooted in technology, is a complex sociomental phenomenal that is truly felt more than it is spoken of.
	- ### The Psychological Dualism of The Gamer
	- Espirit de la gamer is akin to finding oneself a filthy pig and wallowing in alternating mental states of self-reflective purpose. One either wallows in self pity or pride. The dualistic nature of human behavior is a concept rooted in philosophy, humanities, and academia the whole for time en memorium.
	- ### Statement of Purpose
	- Contemplating the duality of espirit de gamer, pride and pity, with the perspective of flow studies, digital sociology, and the specific topic of Valorant as a study, we can identify certain crucial topics for discussion.
- # d2 exotics
	- sleeper stimulant
	- **whisper of the worm**
	- **outbreak perfected**
	- **salvager's salvo**
- current good exotics
	- sweet business
	- rat king
	- ace of spades
- ## books
	- the art of long view - a book by a futurist
	- conspiracy theories
		- AGARTHA
		- Nephelim
		- tulpas
		- magika
		- firmament earth
		- MIB
		- 6 extinctions
		- omouamoua
		- ningens
	-
