#03_CHARACTER 

# INTRODUCTION
**The first requirement of a script is that it must hold the attention of the audience through to the end.** An audience that switches off or walks out is not a satisfied audience, and neither writers nor anyone else connected to a production (including funders, of course!) want a dissatisfied audience. So why does an audience stay? The principal, most basic reason is, to find out what happens next. If the audience doesn’t care what happens next, then that is a crucial failing. **So what makes an audience care what happens next? The answer is, above all: caring about the characters.** Caring about what happens next is about caring what happens next to the characters. To have the audience care about the characters is, then, absolutely vital; it is central to the success of a script, whether that script is intended for television, film, stage or radio.

This book deals with character in all the script media. These media obviously differ from each other in a variety of respects, yet they have a great deal in common. Radio drama, for example, as it clearly cannot call upon visual effects (other than in the listener’s mind), seems a very long way from film, yet in its capacity to move apparently effortlessly from location to location it closely resembles film, while television writing sometimes seems closer to theatre than to film. The relationships between these media, then, are not always obvious, and in the coming chapters there will be many points where distinctions will be drawn between the handling of certain techniques in the various media. They do, however, have a number of major elements in common, including the need for effective dialogue, a strong plot and successful characterization.

**In general, I have a strong dislike of books about writing that are prescriptive, that tell you what to do and what not to do**. And there are plenty of such books around. The problem is that very often the writers of these books have in mind a certain type of film (maybe the traditional Hollywood blockbuster) or a certain type of play (maybe in the naturalistic tradition), and all comments are made in the light of this. Thus one well-known book on screenwriting can blithely state that the goal of the main plot will tend to be action-based while the goal of the sub-plot will tend to be relationship-based. Well, who says? Even restricting ourselves to films, how does this apply to, say, Citizen Kane, or Bonnie and Clyde, or Pulp Fiction or The Big Lebowski? I am not entirely unsympathetic to the point: it is true that in many scripts the plot is action-based while the sub-plot is relationship-based, but despite the use of the words ‘tend to’ the analysis is too bald, the division too sharp, and the analysis fails sufficiently to take into account the multitude of different genres and styles in which scripts can be written. The writers of such books generally love rules (they often show some affection for diagrams, too). I don’t. So **what I am offering is a little advice, that is all.** There are a million ways to go about writing a script or a play, and creating the characters within it. So if ever my advice slips into being prescriptive, I apologize in advance. But then, writers don’t take orders anyway.

done