- Your family was once powerful. The name Kwefnog was held in great respect, by those who were priviliged to know it. Kwefnog Bio-Grease was known as the best shit to fry in. The only shit to fry in. For 100 years, your family fed Night City's poor, marginalized, and addicted. Granted you made them all fat fucks, but they didn't die from hunger.
- Five years ago, the largest multi-national fast food corporation, BeefChoke, attempted a hostile takeover of Kwefnog. They drove the price of fried foods down the drain.  They manufactured a health crisis. BeefChoke told the world fried foods were cheap but unhealthy. Sneaky fucks. They forced the poor, marginalized fuckers you fed to break the bank on salads and ranch dressing.
- You tried to warn your father, the CEO of Kwefnog, of the conspiracy. However, it was too late. Your family's controlling stake of Kwefnog evaporated in milliseconds as the market opened. Moments later, BeefChoke corpos raided your father's office.
- Your father, a man of honor and courage, could not bare the shame of losing his family's company. Before you could stop him, he jumped from his penthouse office. You watched as he fell 300 stories and splashed into the boiling vat of bio-grease in the courtyard of the corporate offices of Kwefnog.
- You, having no sense of honor and courage, and fuck dying that way, simply walked out of the penthouse peacefully.
- Your family disowned you. Shamed and exiled. They expected you to jump after your father. But you didn't.~~~~
