  public:: true
  
- # Leechseed Narrative Design Consulting
	- A program designed to output fully developed narrative projects based on the requirements set by the customer.
	- ## Solving the Problem of Product Growth
		- Narrative driven products fail when growth is required.
			- Sequels
			- Service driven games
			- Expansion of Intellectual Property
		- The demand for narrative driven products is exponensial.
		- Consumers demand narrative products that are robust and of high quality.
		- The market for narrative products is saturated.
		- The consumers of narrative products are well-educated, uncompromising, and spoiled for choice.
		- These consumers can also be loyal, evangelistic, and zealous.
	- ## The needs of the narrative product consumer are changing.
		- Narrative products must evolve their value delivery.
		- Consumers demand a service rather than a single product.
			- Frame narrative products as Intellectual Property Services.
				- The Marvel Cinematic Universe
				- League of Legends
				- Halo
				- Star Wars
			- These intellectual properties are services that deliver multiple products based on the value of narrative design.
		- ### Consumers crave transmediated narrative products.
			- Consumers demand an ecosystem of products based on narrative design.
				- Books
				- Video Games
				- Knowledge bases
				- Memetic Devices
				- Social Media
				- Long Form/Short Form Video Content
	- ## To survive in narrative services, one must initially design a narrative architecture that supports substanciated growth.
		- Leechseed is a program that inputs the narrative needs of the customer, and outputs an narrative architecture that is both robust and agile.
			-
