  public:: true
  
- # Tallahassee/Florida History Notes
	- [wiki link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_Tallahassee,_Florida)
	- **Red Stick Creek** - the High School which used to be known as Red Hills
	- Red Stick Creek is derived from the Native American history in North Florida
	- ^^Idea^^
	- The history of North Florida and the Southern United States is particularly interesting.
	- It could be an incredible source for inspiration for the basis of the ongoing *forever project* which is the OxO/Sci-fi story.
	- I believe there are basal story themes and beats that resonate deeply within the history itself.
	- These themes and tropes are uniquely American which consequently  reverberate through to the global audience.
	- I don't know where to start, but perhaps the best place could be way before the arrival of the Spanish.
	- ^^An interesting take for the world origin mythos^^
	- Combining the ideals of colonialism yet the need for survival, we can create a unique premise.
	- Taking elements  such as
	- Sci-fi extinction event
	- ### Applying and Analyzing Florida History/Sci-Fi Archetype Narratives
	- Humanity arcs sent into the void to perpetuate the species (but to the same area of space, alpha centurai or whatever)
	- Each arc represents a part of major geo-political countries (USA, China, etc.)
	- However there too exists independent scrappy venture ships of devilish individuals, cluts, religions....an incalculable amount of meat floating through space seeking a new home.
	- ### The End of the End of the World/*Morisaxum* and the Beginning of the Lithic Stage (or *Nos Excruciam*) *Infili* infurnis
	- *Noster* - Our
	- *Cruciamentum* - Torture
	- *Excelcus* - Romantic
	- *Nos Excruciam*
	-
	- Someone once said, 'there's definitely at least 1 billion people who made it off earth.'
	- When challenged on his assertion, he answered with a short, 'I counted,' as the ship's radio crackled. '*GenComm reports end traffic, check-task, wait-task, sys-nom*
	- *GenComm* is short for General Communications...basically this staccatto style tacticool-esque form of communication that the Space Force uses.
	- Minecraft/Survival Gameplay/Battle Royale
	- some cosmic ultra-god somehow scrambles the giant flotilla of human canned meat through time and space.
	- Time skip.
	- Either 1000 years later or, maybe even further.
	- Its now the time hayday of native American tribes.
	- They're on some new planet, and they seem have set a foothold.
	- However, in the 1000 years that they've been there, they are the only ship that seems to have made it to the final planet.
	- Only a handful of humans are left from the great exodus.
	- The few who are left are like unnaturally old, perhaps they're some sort of super-human from the old earth, ones that were alive for the whole damn thing...only just now are their systems begin fading.
	- The true origin of humanity's history in the heavens above will die with them.
	- The exodus simply fades into million myths of where humans first arrived.
	- ^^by using us history as a backdrop, and science-fiction as a genre, the universe can be fuckin ripe with possibility.^^
	- WTF happened to the other ships?
	- Can the survivors not get back into space?
	- What caused the massive meat spread through space?
	- ## Current possibilities of established simultaneous realities in the IP
		- 1000 years of history to explore, what happened to the rest of humanity?
		-
		  > ^^**END Holocene/The Lithic Stage**What was that giant think scattered the humans apart like the tower of babel deez nutts?^^  
		-
		  > ^^**START???/The Archaic Stage**- What was life like on the one American ship that made it, could you imagine living an entire lifetime on a fucking metal tube?^^  
		-
		  > ^^**START ???/The Formative Stage** - landfall of the First and Followers^^  
		-
		  > ^^The complex politic and factional warfare on the planet itself, Native American  History. **START ???/Classical stage**^^  
		-
		  > ^^The arrival of Conquistadors.  **START Age of Discovery/Post-Classical stage**^^  
		- ### Review
		- So I had some trouble trying to figure out temporal space and how time/humanity will cope with, idk, the world ending
		- There are actually different calendars that currently exist that are based varying concepts.
		- Follow link, we'll figure out what we're doing later.
		- [link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Holocene)
		- [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Human_history](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Human_history)
- *(an interesting vocabulary could be to use the word *spices* for elements or essences of illusory techniques )
