  public:: true
  
-
- # entertainment formula
	- entertainment:true = (L-Mode:true + R-Mode:true)
	-
$$Σ=λκ$$	- Σ Sigma = entertainment:true = 'entertaining' =  1
	- λ Lambada = L-Mode:true = 1
	- κ Kappa = R-Mode:true = 1
	- According to McKee = Entertainment equals emotional and intellectual fulfilment.
	- τ*τ* Tau = TASHEN:true = Sublime Entertainment
	- *ξ*  Xi = Sublime = Meaningfulness that exceeds the measurable limit on the Peen Scale
	- *ϱ* Varro = Meaningfulness = the density of meaning  according to  the Peen Scale = Peen Mean Equation = *λ*(1+*η*)+*κ*(1+*n*)
	-
$$ϱ=λ^{(1+η)}+κ^{(1+n)}$$	- Δ Delta = Peen Scale
	- *χ* Chi  = 2 = Delta Peen Scale Limit
	- Sublime Entertainment = The Meaningfulness is greater than or equal to 2 on the Peen Scale : *ξ* = *ϱ* ≥ χ
	-
$$ξ= ϱ ≥ χ$$	- Law of Sublime Entertainment: Sublime Entertainment is Greater than Entertainment. *ξ*>Σ
	-
$$ξ>Σ$$	- **Sublime Entertainment is an entertainment product that is so fucking amazing that an individual is unable to rationally or figuratively communicate when prompted to explain their reasoning.**
	-
	  > '*Why is it so good?*'  
	  'Just Watch it. Please.  I can't explain it....I just-I just can't.'  
	  ...  
	  '*Dumb shittin-ass asshole;  shittin outcha mouf like yahheed an ass and ur mouf an asshole.*'  
	-
	-
-
- # TASHEN Books
	- [web](tashen.com)
	- TASHEN is a book publisher that covers design, art, and culture.
	- From what it looks like, they seem to be the GOAT of such things.
	- What follows is a loose list of relevant books I would like to obtain.
	- ## Collections
		- The Library of Esoterica
		- Decorative Art 50s, 60s, 70s
		- All-American Ads, 50s, 60s, 70s, 80s,90s
		- Basic Art Series
		- BIG
		-
	- ## Titles
		- 100 Illustrators
		- 100 Interiors Around the World
		- 100 Manga Artists
		- 100 Movies of the 1990s
		- 100 Movies of the 2010s
		- 1900 America
		- 20th-Century Fashion. 100 Years of Apparel Ads
		- Ai Weiwei. 40th Ed.
		- Albert Oehlen
		- Albert Watson. Kaos
		- Ando
		- Araki. 40th Ed.
		- Architectural Theory. Pioneering Texts on Architecture from the Renaissance to Today
		- Architecture in the 20th Century
		- Bacon
		- Basquiat
		- Bauhaus
		- Bauhaus. Updated Edition
		- Beatriz Milhazes
		- Bjarne Mastenbroek. Dig it! Building Bound to the Ground
		- Bosch
		- Bourgery. Atlas of Human Anatomy and Surgery
		- Bruce W. Talamon. Soul. R&B. Funk. Photographs 1972–1982, Art Edition
		- Bruegel
		- Calatrava
		- Case Study Houses. The Complete CSH Program 1945-1966
		- D&AD. The Copy Book
		- Dali
		- Dalí. Les dîners de Gala
		- Design of the 20th Century
		- Design of the 20th Century
		- Devaulx, Nautical Works
		- Duchamp
		- Eames
		- Ellen von Unwerth. Fräulein
		- Erotica Universalis
		- F.L. Wright
		- Fashion History from the 18th to the 20th Century
		- Fashion History from the 18th to the 20th Century
		- Film Noir
		- Food & Drink Infographics. A Visual Guide to Culinary Pleasures
		- Frank Lloyd Wright
		- Frédéric Chaubin. CCCP. Cosmic Communist Constructions Photographed. 40th Ed.
		- Freud
		- Friedrich
		- Fritz Kahn. Infographics Pioneer
		- Giger
		- Gisele Bündchen
		- Great Escapes USA. The Hotel Book
		- Green Architecture
		- Helmut Newton. SUMO. 20th Anniversary Edition
		- Hieronymus Bosch. The Complete Works. 40th Ed.
		- History of Information Graphics
		- Hokusai
		- Horror Cinema
		- HR Giger. 40th Ed.
		- Ice Cold. A Hip-Hop Jewelry History
		- Industrial Design A-Z
		- Information Graphics
		- Inside North Korea
		- James Baldwin. Steve Schapiro. The Fire Next Time
		- Jean-Michel Basquiat. 40th Ed.
		- Joan Blaeu. Atlas Maior of 1665
		- Julia Watson. Lo—TEK. Design by Radical Indigenism
		- Julius Shulman. Modernism Rediscovered
		- Kahlo
		- Koolhaas. Elements of Architecture
		- Leonardo. The Complete Paintings and Drawings
		- Lewis W. Hine. America at Work
		- Logo Beginnings
		- Logo Design
		- Logo Design. Global Brands
		- Logo Modernism
		- Mario Testino. Private View
		- Mario Testino. SIR
		- Massimo Listri. The World’s Most Beautiful Libraries
		- Menu Design in America. 1850–1985
		- Mert Alas and Marcus Piggott
		- Michelangelo. The Complete Works. Paintings, Sculptures, Architecture
		- Mies van der Rohe
		- Modern Architecture A–Z
		- Modern Art. A History from Impressionism to Today
		- Monet
		- Monet. The Triumph of Impressionism
		- Morris
		- Munch
		- Naomi Harris. America Swings
		- Neil Leifer. Boxing. 60 Years of Fights and Fighters
		- Neutra. Complete Works
		- New Deal Photography. USA 1935–1943
		- Norman Mailer. MoonFire. The Epic Journey of Apollo 11
		- Oliver Byrne. The First Six Books of the Elements of Euclid
		- Peter Beard. The End of the Game
		- Peter Lindbergh. Dior
		- Photo Icons. 50 Landmark Photographs and Their StoriesPollock
		- Ralph Gibson. Nude
		- Rembrandt. The Complete Paintings
		- Remote Experiences. Extraordinary Travel Adventures from North to South
		- Richter
		- Rock Covers. 40th Ed.
		- Rockwell
		- Science Illustration. A History of Visual Knowledge from the 15th Century to Today
		- Seba. Cabinet of Natural Curiosities. 40th Ed.
		- Sebastião Salgado. Exodus
		- Sebastião Salgado. Kuwait. A Desert on Fire
		- Steve McCurry. Afghanistan
		- The Art and Science of Ernst Haeckel. 40th Ed.
		- The Art of Pin-up
		- The Book of Miracles
		- The Book of Symbols. Reflections on Archetypal Images
		- The Circus. 1870s–1950s
		- The East German Handbook
		- The Fairy Tales. Grimm & Andersen 2 in 1. 40th Ed.
		- The Fantastic Worlds of Frank Frazetta
		- The History of Graphic Design. 40th Ed.
		- The History of Graphic Design. Vol. 1. 1890–1959
		- The History of Graphic Design. Vol. 2. 1960–Today
		- The Magic Mirror of M.C. Escher
		- The NASA Archives. 60 Years in Space
		- The New Erotic Photography
		- The North American Indian. The Complete Portfolios
		- The Office of Good Intentions. Human(s) Work
		- The Package Design Book
		- The Polaroid Book. 40th Ed.
		- The Secret Teachings of All Ages
		- The Stanley Kubrick Archives
		- The World of Ornament
		- Tiki Pop
		- Tree Houses
		- Type. A Visual History of Typefaces & Graphic Styles
		- Ultimate Collector Cars
		- Van Gogh. The Complete Paintings
		- Warhol
		- Web Design. The Evolution of the Digital World 1990–Today
		- What Great Paintings Say. 100 Masterpieces in Detail
		- William Claxton. Jazzlife. Art Edition
		- Wolfgang Tillmans. four books. 40th Ed.
		- Zaha Hadid
-
