- # update on mouse
	- ## switched up the mouse game
		- got the pulsar mini x2.
		- really enjoying it so far
		- feels like the dream mouse. hopefully the honey moon phase will last a little little longer
		- i'm impressed by:
			- how fucking light it is
			- feels fraglie though. like if i drop it on the floor its gonna fucking explode
			- the shape
		- my pinky and my forefinger can grip the mouse so well almost like a...well its the closest thing to gripping a pen  but not with the thumb and whatever finger is next to it
		- however with this ultra precise aim style i use immediate access to the thumb buttons
		- which, the quick brown fox jumped over your fat ass lets try with a shorter
			- experimenting with the backspace speed now, just cause ADD. think I fixed it
			- trying to remove the habit of clicking and just intuitively use a toggle keystroke
			- lets see if it helps with typing efficiency or just makes things worse
		- I need to focus on retraining my accuracy to fit the mouse itself.
		- I can't let lazy the lazy habit of triple tapping aim wise to work.
		- an interesting development in 'accuracy' aiming is the difference in technique between this and the G50shit
			- the pulsar is so small and light, i can focus my accuracy by gripping it between my fingers
			- the logitech was large and provided a heightened palm rest. this allowed me to push down and create pressure with my hand muscles tensing and pushing the mouse itself into the desk
			- I don't know if this is an effective method, but now that I think about it, tensing the muscles prevents elasticity and thus resulting in twitchy explosive movements?
			- perhaps that strategy wasn't really wise?
			- anyways, there are serrated grips along the sides of the mouse where the thumb and that finger next to my pinky
		- intuitively, what feels the best when gripping the pulsar in the most abstract of terms is *flowy*
			- its definitively a feeling of riding the momentum of your hands towards where you are specifically aiming
		- its interesting. it almost feels like a revolution in aiming style. for me at least.
		- opposed to rigid, slow, sweeping, grand and intentional movements that rely on experience. instead of a samurai, this pulsar feels like wushi martial-artists from china in the ancient day
		- it might also be the glass skates installed
		- it glides so smoothly. its nothing like i've felt before in a mouse
		- instable is the perfect way to describe it, like an f18 against an otherwise stable 747.
		- if I swing one direction too fast I feel like I'll throw my rifle into the stratosphere
		- Perhaps the perspective I should train with is the idea of
			- first, mindful diligent training eg: one click one  action
			- and eventually flow into the rhythm of wushu mouse practice nigga
- ref
- # mouse grip notes
  id:: 644d143f-25ee-43cb-a29b-1c5213e22864
	- I switched over to CM Storm Xornet Claw Grip
	- Using the Ergonomic Design as reference I began to understand the principles of mouse grip that I never understood before.
	- According to the design, using my thumb, forefinger, and pinky, GRIP the mouse and use that to make smooth movements.
	- I feel myself gaining 'control' of the mouse rather than kind of reacting to my wild flicking finger tip no grip reactionary type of aiming.
	- I'll call it the **Playboy Grip** because the activated muscles in the hand are exactly the same as making a bunny using shadow puppets back in the day
	- I believe this *tiny fucking change* will help me immensely in every game
	- I also **changed my windows mouse sensitivity settings** *to 5*
	- The standard DPI polling rate built within the mouse is 1000 DPI
	- I don't really understand the nature of going higher or lower so I'll keep it there
	- **Consistent pressure throughout the mouse movement will keep aim consistent and controlled**
	- **Grip the Mouse with the Thumb and pinky**
		- These two fingers should grip the mouse, at the base of either side.
		- The sides of the thumb and pinky should consistently be touching the mousepad as well as gripping the mouse.
		- Remember to **activate these muscles** for proper form
		- The thumb and and the pinky act as control and command processes.
		- In excessive jerky movements, the acceleration and twitch fibers should be fast, but also smooth.
		- The thumb and pinky effectively glue the mouse to the mousepad acting as traction and preventing the mouse from uncontrollable and inconsistent aiming
		- With practice, the mind will be able to engrain these routine movements minimizing the need for on the fly micro corrections
		-
	-
-
