  public:: true
  
- # Do you value a wealth of power or a wealth of experience?
	- I believe I lean towards the experiential fulfilment.
		- At my most manic I crave sensation
		- At my most stressed I am un-sensationed and I am choose to do it to myself for an extended amount of time and I shame myself for not doing so.
	- At my best. I believe I am able to complete grand and complex experiential goals as long as I am able to find meaningfulness in the mundane nature of learning. Or find a way to consistantly keep my mind from becoming an anxious wreck that  over values unfullfing moments as equal to breaking an arm.
		- Meditation now has a purpose. Emotional regulation and control.
		- It is a method of taming and controlling my power over time.
		- The more I strengthen my cognitive willpower, the more powerful I will become.
		- However, if I do not remain mindful and continue practices pursuant to controlling, effectively deploying, and creating automatic emergency recovery or blowout measures, I will find myself in holes more often than I should.
-
- # ON A NEW ADVENTURE IN BLACK DESERT ONLINE
	- [WIKILINKI](https://www.naeu.playblackdesert.com/en-US/Wiki?wikiNo=184)
	- ## SEASON GOALS
		- | **Q. What are the goals in a season server?**
		- 1. Create a season character.
		- 2. Level up through the main questline.
		- 3. Reach Lv. 56 and complete the Awakening/Succession questlines
		- 4. Grow strong with the Naru gear.
			- 4a.Convert to Tuvala gear, s well.
			- 4b. Enhance them to PEN (V) grade
		- 5. Explore the rest of the world of Black Desert as you see fit.
	- ### So the new season starts in two days. My goal will be to spend these next two days....
		- Complete the Apocalyptic Prophecy quest
			- Areas in western Valencia, such as Desert Naga Temple, are monster zones that’ll help you reach Lv. 56
			  id:: 642106d3-5da0-4a18-8c49-fc6dd568fa52
			- I is recommended for you to have DP stats that equal around 1.2 to 1.4 times the zone’s recommended AP.
		- Grind to Lvl 56
		- Complete Succession & Awakening
		- Final season goal to be reaching Lv. 61
			- the “Chenga Run.” The Chenga Run refers to leveling up quickly with the EXP you obtain from completing the quests of a certain territory from Lv. 59 to Lv. 61. You can normally reach Lv. 61 more quickly this way than from defeating monsters. Please refer to the guides posted by our Adventurers for more details on the Chenga Run. (Prior preparations ㅣKamasylvia region ㅣDrieghan region ㅣ Northwestern Calpheon region)
		- You should complete the challenges on the Season Pass and enhance your Tuvala gear up to PEN (V)
	- ## Talking in Chat
		- **• General Chat:** Alt+1
		  **• Server Chat:** Alt+2  
		  **• Whisper:** Alt+3  
		  **• Party Chat:** Alt+4  
		  **• Guild Chat:** Alt+5  
		  **• World Chat:** Alt+6  
		  **• Group Chat:** Alt+7  
		  **• Roleplay Chat:** Alt+8  
		  **• Arsha Chat:** Alt+9  
	-
		-
- # Esemplasmic Radiolacra and the Dark Power of LEECHSEED
	- Taylor Coleridge
	- Congruence
	- Temple Gradin
	-
- # Brands to use in the stories of LEECHSEED
	- ## Edgecult
	- ## LEECHSEED
	- ## zazoku.com
	- waht is a kibbie body tpe
	- PLR -> MMR
		- use the books I have and all the other shit, feed them into an AI and resell.
		- At this point, its all about volume
- # Limited Brand Project Concept
	- ##
