  public:: true
  
- # this is what focus looks like. this is what fun looks like.
- ## you're uncomfortable, and I understand that.
- ### but what you want from me, and what you need from me, is something I have to do myself.
- #### if you don't like how I do it, then leave, and wait for what you want.
-
- # General Humanities
- ## Studies from the Gap
-
- The gap is the metaphoric term describing the finite point at which two dualistic concepts intersect and merge into a shared single concept.
- There are several methods in which to study the gap.
- ### We're gonna focus on one form and one form only.
- Literature - The primary method of literature is to create a work of fiction with sociological intent based on literature design patterns found in works declared as 'literature.'
- The whole existence and validity of literature is up for debate. It is unlike Science, Philosophy, or Math.
- Literature, like other works of art, is wholly a subjective pursuit of an individual with an idea.
- To create the literature it is often up to an individual to take this idea and construct a complex series of  connected systems, observe their functions with the idea, and then to publish these findings within the constraints of one's own perception of 'literature' and that of a public who have requirements and preconceptions of literature themselves.
- A multitude of criticism is no doubt warranted with the previous statement.
- The idea that we live in world where publishing an idea is considered an effortless and fruitless concern is one that many people share. The concern is not the practice of publishing one's thoughts, it is the fulfilment of your idea being seen and appreciated.
-
- The gap in literature is a multitude of dualistic concepts in which the author must establish their own truth. On the basis of these truths, an author can then create systems of knowledge, a theory of how their truth is expressed in different forms of established systems of thought.
- Thus one can represent the difference between an author who pursues literature and an author who pursues genre fiction.
- An author who pursues genre fiction accepts truth as a priori. Truth is a concept determined outside of the mind. The genre author assumes the position as a means of production. The author as a vehicle for a need and a pain to be satiated. Rooted in the concept of success as material wealth.
- An author who pursues literature understands truth as a postiriori. Truth is a concept determined within the mind. The literature author assumes the position as a philosopher. The author as a vehicle for truth and voice for suffering that goes unseen. Rooted in the concept of enlightenment as philosophical wealth.
-
- From these assumptions, a voluminous amount of dualistic concepts, gaps, and concerns come to fruition. One can simply build a body of work on the study of such a fascinating truth.
- General Humanities - basically perspectives of everything but literature. The concepts and systems in which the author will identify design patterns according to their basis of truth.
- Perhaps the concept of a postbeef must be taken fully from the literature author.
- To manipulate one's idea and truth according to concepts of sound business or sociologic concern is to step away from the very identity of what literature should be.
- However, how does one separate one's own thoughts from that of another when we live in a world of a multitude of thot constructs?
- I believe that the concern should not be that of the reader, but that of the author. The author, to demonstrate one's pursuit of a post-malone objectives in literature, could create a Theory of Knowledge.
- Again, however, one must consider creating such a thing is also being influenced by another. Then again, to truly have a unique thought, one must kill themselves to truly appreciate an understanding of truth.
-
- The point being, a literary  author must consider their voice, their truth, their unique experience in life as a valid inspiration for publishing. It is that honesty which must be considered the utmost important benefactor in the construction of literary fiction.
- It is this value which all forms of modern literary criticism focus their efforts in commentary.
- For the literary author, this truth must not just be honest, but robust enough to support the demands of a complex literature system based in general humanities.
- From this truth an author can further pursue the a post-roast perspective of constructing a robust story in which many literary consumers find the most alluring point of the craft.
-
- Creating LEECHSEED's Theory of Truth.
- The first concept of Truth has been established already.
- Life and Everything is viewed from a perspective of Dualism. One is of two polar concepts merged into one. The finite area which these two concepts intersect is known as the gap. Within this gap, LEECHSEED observes with the methodology of literary criticism.
- In literary criticism exists a multitude of design patterns which have been collectively accepted as canon.
- Concept 1 - One is Two and the Gap Between - Perspective Dualism. All other Concepts are Framed as Dualistic concepts with an understanding of the gap.
- Concept 2 - On Thought Experiments. To ask these questions, one is either demonstrating power or a matchstick. To answer them is to be stupid. To not answer them is to die.
-
- It seems that a majority of extra-personal human interaction is transactional. The interaction is either decidedly inhuman, automated so to speak, a resignation of our society's destruction of connecting beyond that of when we are prepared to or a vain effort to connect beyond the transactional basis.
- Technology pushes the species into the future at the expense of an unseen minority. Social technology is masterminded by the most antisocial tech nerds in the world. Effectively, this is answer to the perspective of technology tearing social interaction apart. Or, Social technology is simply connecting like minded individuals together, where once people felt alone in the world, now they are part of communities that would have never existed before hand.
	- The gap is found in the periphery.
	-
- The point of the gap is not to answer but to question the question. The point of the gap is to illustrate the magnitude of its curiosities, truths, and assumptions. Idiocy has appropriated this method of dialectic as a form of questioning their identity and truth. As if questioning is the spectre of evil and not the nefarious use of rhetoric in pursuit of political influence.  If one is incapable of questioning their own decisions and logic, it is inevitable someone else will. Tragic and entertaining to witness one instance of this phenomena. A painful introduction to the phenomena of influence and those who think they're smart enough to ignore it. I digress. One should maybe use the word 'vulnerable' instead of stupid. The irony of acknowledging the gap is to realize you have been both.
-
- Observing the gap with an intent to find narrative juice, one simply can add the human element. Whether the gap exists within the mind of a single character, that of two characters, a group, corporation, society, humanity, the gap exists.
- What makes the gap juicy is how individuals, or other human constructs, interact with the gap.
- For example, an individual can assume truths regarding the gap as a simple method of operating without stress and triggering flow.
- Or, one can operate on the need to define the gap, a seeker of truth in need for an established reality to operate in.
- One can take the previous two statements and further break them down into nesting dualistic concepts or we can choose to stop and see what the gap looks at this level in the nest.
-
- On one end we have someone who lives life according to the stated requirements of her tenure at the supermarket. The assumption is that her reality is stable and she operates confidently within the boundaries of the operating space. This is Samantha.
- On the other end we have, Jerry. Jerry doesn't live life, he is a belligerent prisoner confined to the reality defined by his manager, Samantha. Jerry hasn't slept in three days. Samantha got 9 hours last night. Jerry hasn't slept in 3 days because he's been staking out the back of the supermarket seeking validation for his own a priori truth, that there is something devious going on in the background of the supermarket, and Samantha is either a culpable participant or a fucking idiot.
- ### I'm actually fucking surprised how easy that was. Holy shit.
-
- Now that we have established the gap at this level, two characters at this level, the conflict at this level, we can either continue to move forward thru time.
- How we move thru that time is up to the author. One can continue to explore the dualistic nature of this level by finding further dualistic concepts at this particular temporal level. One can delve deeply into the character of Jerry, and exploit the countless dualistic demons that no doubt keep his sanity on the brink. Or we can move to a sociological level, and extract the dualistic juice from the perspective of customers, the boss, the suppliers, etc.
- #### At this level of artistic expression, decisions are made at the literary author's discretion based on his interpretation of personal truth.
- For the genre author, one must consider the general audience's perception and opinion of what has turned into some sort of grocery based everyman thriller.
- That is the dualistic concept in theory in practice.
-
- One must consider the idea of writer's block and creative methodology. If one has writer's block, it would be essential to assume that they are not a very good writer. Assume that they have little to no understanding of how their personal creativity operates.
- The level of a dualistic creativity system is the basis of creating value for anyone who considers themselves a creative professional. To create a wealth of quality ideas based on a one's theory of truth.
- The basis of literary authorship exists on top of the concepts of creative dualism and artistic truth. These two concepts, for me, that cannot exist without the other. Both at the same time, fuck head.
- Dualism informs the choice of artistic truth. The artistic truth informs the selection of the dualistic concept.
- #### The concept of creativity is the absence of correct. Creativity is the meaningless surface text that labels methodologies of priming the mind to express unique and subjective processing.
- It is this hypocritical un-truth which I believe perfectly illustrates the third concept, the gap.
- In essence, all three together is a conceptual non-concept.
- finite definitions, modeled systems, and peer-reviewed concepts are of the perspective of an algorithmic and a postiriori methodology.
- One must separate the two. One must first create the chaos of data before seeking to catalog and understand it.
-
- While the dualism is the root of the literary author's value, it is not the rest of it. heh
- Once an author masters their dualistic creativity system, an other must take the next step and learn the concept of creative constraints and discipline.
- At this level of authorship we will dismiss the perspective of the literary author and introduce the perspective of literary critic.
- The literary critic is much like Samantha. Living confident and comfortable in a world with well understood concepts, systems, and boundaries. Of course the limitation of this perspective is that truth only exists within the constraints of his own making, and vehemently defends them when challenged or otherwise criticized themselves.
- On that note we shall further define literary critic. Lets look at the prolifics. The arbiters of the craft. Some shall come to you quickly, while others may be out in the periphery.
- The goal of establishing a critical system is to efficiently, systematically, and methodically provide a posteriori perspective to the author.
-
- The gap of literary fiction success is rooted in understanding how the author and the reader's gap interacts. The author must define himself thru their theory of truth, and must also define the reader.
- Defining the reader must remain within the literary ideals of a post truth which requires the author to define the reader not simply on the basis of the establishment, but on the basis of the author's truth.
- One could create a paper that formally establishes an author's truth and its interaction with formal literary criticism thus allowing an author to support oneself in times of uninvited bukkake pandering.
- Once this truth is established, one can now study literary fiction with an understanding of what truth is in crucial moments of exploratory research.
-
- What is important is that an literary author is in control of their creative inspiration, methodology, practice, and truth. If the author chooses to include concepts and systems of established literature then the author must consider their truth in the decision. So much so , I believe the author should consider publishing work related to every choice decision barred against his or her truth.
- The purpose of what may be observed as radical measures in terms of writing fiction is height in which the bar of literary fiction must be measured. Truthful honest effort with a dedication to one's own perspective and that of the establishment.
- What has been constructed in the LEECHSEED establishment of literary fiction is as follows
- Concept 1 - One is Two and the Gap.
- Concept 2 - Dualism/Theory of Truth/Dualism/Theory of Truth - Dualism empowers creativity
- Concept 3 - The Nature of Dualism is Chaos. The Nature of Systems is to Understand.
-
-
