  public:: true
  
- # notes about story from the moon
	- the unreliable mentor - a trope of a mentor who tries their best, but are actually not as great as they claim to be. their intentions are true, but the more the protagonist develops themselves, they realize how much they taught were wrong. subtext represents the thematic nature of growing up. how a difficult choice is really 'difficult'. having to choose their dream or their life, having to deal with the difficult concept of betrayal and jealousy, having to realise the choice has been made, and their is no home to come back to, no matter what the only choice is forward.
	- if im going to write characters that align with a certain emotional/intillectual balance, i must first find examples in reality and learn to truly live those parts. Caricature is something I aim to avoid. I need to find dualistic reasoning for each goal and virtue the character holds. often some of the greatest character traits are rooted in traumatic dilemmas that ended either in failure or success. the strength of an individual's impact on the main character's perspective, especially when introducing a new character, is rooted in the potency of a character's virtue or vice. virtue being their purity of goodness. vice being their purity of evil. use that one matrix of chaotic good etc.
	- the more 'outlier' on the on the mental map, the greater an impact a certain traumatic dilemma  has influenced their life.
		- two ways to measure traumatic impact is through the temporal proximity to the given moment.
			- eg traumatic proximity
				- traumatic proximity can be split into three categories
					- present
					- yesterday
					- far gone
				- present - the trauma is current and the character is coping
				- yesterday - the trauma ended immediately preceding the introduction, and the character is vulnerable
				- far gone - the trauma is far in the past and the character has molded an unhinged
				- define the meaning and components of traumatic reflex
					- traumatic reflex
						- coping
						- vulnerable
						- unhinged
		- the next way is the chain
			- the traumatic chain
				- chain - a chain of traumatic events that lead into another causing an exponential amount of trauma the more events that occur
				- pain chain - a chain of traumatic events that resulted in the character needing to 'fight' to survive. these events will scale according to general story terms. however, what makes this a pain chain is that the actions of the character inevitably lead to a consequential chain of events that forces them to deal with trauma that is far more effective than the prior.
				- cope chain - similar to the pain chain, but instead the character must 'die' to escape.  death is the irony in the case of a cope chain. what leads up to the cope chain is a series of attempted escapes and bargains. what results is a situation where the character is caught in an adaptive trap of their own creation and has finally grown weak. what makes this character a potent dualistic character is the frightening level of +/- energy they are capable of wielding
			-
			-
		-
- # Weapons in Destiny
	- ## Weapon Classes
		- Hand Canon
		- Pulse Rifle
		- Bow
		- Sidearm
		- SMG
		- Scout Rifle
		- Fusion Rifle
		- Auto Rifle
		- **Grenade Launcher**
		- Sniper Rifle
		- **Rocket Launcher**
		- Shotgun
		- Trace Rifle
		- Glaives
		- **Linear Fusion Rifle**
		- **Machine Guns**
	- ## Damage Type/Class
		- ### Kinetic/Primary
		- ### Energy/Primary
			- #### Solar
			- #### Void
			- #### Striker
			- #### Gumby
		- ### Energy/Power
			- #### Solar
			- #### Void
			- #### Striker
	- ## Damage Range Type
		- **Close**
		- Close/Medium
		- **Medium**
		- Medium/Far
		- **Far**
	- ## Rate of Fire
		- High
		- Medium
		- Low
	- ## Rarity Tiers
		- #### Purple
		- #### Gold
- # Shadowkeep Combat System
	- ## Shadow Keep Boss Types
		- ### Barrier
		- ### Unstoppable
		- ### Overload
	- ### Shadowkeep Boss Types/Weapon Mod Vulnerabilities
		- ### Barrier - Pulse Rifles; Bows
		- ### Unstoppable - Hand Canon
		- ### Overload - Scout Rifle; Auto Rifle, Submachine Gun
- # Ideal Armory Loadout
	- A god-tier weapon roll for every variation.
	- ## Agile and Actionable Loadout
		- 1) Primary Weapons - god-tier roll of each weapon class
		- 2) Energy Weapons -  god-tier roll for every energy type
		- 3) Power Weapons - god-tier roll for every
		- 4) Dark Rise Priority - rolls that fill **shadow type/energy type**
			- Primary Weapon
				- Initial Goal - *a weapon that fulfills damage at every range type with consideration for rate of fire*
					- Close/na
					- Medium/Medium
					- Far/na
			- Energy Type
				- Initial Goal - *a weapon that fulfills each energy/shadow type*
				- Secondary Goal - *a weapon that fulfills each damage type at purple level*
				- **Solar**
				- **Void**
				- **Striker**
			- Shadow type
				- Pulse Rifles; Bows
				- Hand Canon
				- Scout Rifle; Auto Rifle, Submachine Gun
		- # Current Loadout
			- #### Energy Weapons - Initial
				- Void Pulse Rifle - *Graviton Lance*
				- Solar Hand Canon - Sunshot
				- Striker Submachine Gun - *Riskrunner*
			- #### Energy Weapons - Secondary
	- # Loadout Theory
		- ### Crowd Control Rating
			- Range is the distance of a weapon's effectiveness.
			- *__Crowd Control Rating__*  - A rating of efficiency based on a weapon's ability to crowd control. Rating determined by sentimental analysis and *crowd control ratio*
			- *__Crowd Control Ratio__* - a ratio considering range/fire rate with emphasis on sentimental analysis
			- **Sentimental Analysis** - how a weapon feels according to the user. Meant to substitute several other weapon attributes in exchange for decision efficiency.
			- **Rating Spread**
				- A-tier
				- Meh-tier
				- Sucks-tier
		- ## CCR methodology
			- For your loadout, one must consider crowd control in Destiny 2.
			- Mobs consist of a majority of the enemy class type in any given situation.
			- Bosses and Mini-Bosses are considered extremely dangerous however, and should be targeted for elimination.
			- Thus the dilemma.
			- How does one equip their loadout to effectively eliminate mobs at a rate which allows the guardian to focus the *initial target* which are the bosses?
			- **For now we'll stick to this paradigm** - *A1 Always....*
			- *__A1 Always__* - you always want an A tier CCR  especially in encounters that you first meet.
- # Use comment blocks as a way to jot down relevant ideas/data that should be considered  later
	- ctrl + shift + i
	  id:: 63fb0694-34bd-4c5a-a521-315a0dbb2418
	-
-
- [[Comments]]
  collapsed:: true
	- [[02-26-2023]]
	  collapsed:: true
		- ctrl + shift + i
		-
