- Chapter 3 Blogging Basics
	- Understanding Types of Blog Posts
		- Listicles
		- Current events/news
		- Tips and thought leadership
		- Reviews
		- Reccomendations
		- How-tos and tutorials
		- polls and surveys
		- interviews
		- contests
		- visual media and podcasts
		- checklists and printables
		- roundups
	- Determining How Often to Publish Blog Posts
		- How frequently you publish new content on your blog is completely up to you! There are no rules for number of posts per month, week, or even per day. If you’re blogging for fun and aren’t trying to reach a specific goal, such as number of readers or income generated, you can publish as frequently or infrequently as you want. However, if you want to grow your blog and become a successful blogger, you need to publish with some sort of regularity. 
		  The quality of your content is certainly critical to your blog’s success, but without fresh content, people won’t have much incentive to return to your blog or tell other people about it. One great post just doesn’t get the job done if you want to grow your blog. The more frequently you publish good blog posts, the more reason there is for people to return again and again, and the more likely it is that your readers will share your content with others.   
		  Frequent blog updates can also help with search engine optimization (which I dis-cuss in Chapter 1 of Book 5) because each new blog post is a new entry point for search engines to find your blog. More entry points give people more chances to find your blog through a Google search, for example.  
		  When you know how much you want your blog to grow and how quickly, you can determine how often you need to publish new blog posts. Some bloggers publish new content more than one time a day, but it’s a more reasonable goal to try to publish fresh content once a day. If growth isn’t that important to you, but you don’t want to be the only person reading your blog, try to publish a new blog post every few days so you have fresh content up two to three times per week. Finally, if growing your readership isn’t the focus of your blog and instead you just want to write for your own enjoyment, you can publish new blog posts whenever you want and as infrequently as you want.   
		  Blogging success is directly tied to your goals for your blog and your commitment to investing time into your blog. Write great content in your own voice, be social, and make sure your content is fresh.  
	- Following Blogging Trends
		- Visual content
		- long-form content
		- mobile-first blog format
		- estimated reading times
		- tl;dr summaries
		- daily posts
		- utilizing guest posts
		- interactive content
	- Launch Your Blog QUickly
		- Choosing a blog topic
		- Choosing a blog name
		- Choosing a domain name
		- Choosing a hosting platform
		- Selecting a theme
		- Writing and publishing a post
		- Sharing a link to your content
	- Identifying the Basic Elements of a Blog
		- Although the content and look of every blog is unique, most blogs have several specific elements in common. Of course, as with most aspects of blogging, there are exceptions to every rule: Even though most blogs include elements such as sidebars, footers, and archives, those elements aren’t mandatory. It’s up to indi-vidual bloggers to choose and include the blog elements that provide the user experiences they want to deliver. 
		  Furthermore, blogs vary in the way they’re laid out. In other words, the design of the blog can affect where elements appear on your screen. The flexible layout is one of the best parts about blogging and allows you to really flex your creative muscles! The look and feel of your blog is entirely up to you.  
		- Homepage
			- Your blog’s homepage is your blog’s primary landing page where readers first arrive after typing in your domain name. In other words, it’s the most popu-lar starting point for a readers’ journey through your blog’s content. Figure 3-6 shows an example of a blog home page, JUST is a Four Letter Word (www. justisafourletterword.com), where it’s easy for readers to navigate to the other standard blog elements without feeling lost. 
			  Traditionally, most-recent blog posts typically appear first on a blog’s home page with remaining posts appearing in reverse chronological order. Blogs are usually divided into columns of content (two- and three-column blog formats are most common) with blog posts appearing in the widest column. Additional content on the home page may include links and the various elements described throughout the remainder of this chapter.   
			  Blogs can use home pages that replicate popular news sites’ layouts (sometimes referred to as magazine layouts), or specific layouts for portfolios or photography. For example, in the example shown in Figure 3-6, the blog post categories food, travel, and holidays are highlighted as image links near the top of the page to draw attention to them. Bloggers have more choices than ever, so don’t be sur-prised if a blog you visit doesn’t have a simple home page layout or looks more like a website than a blog.   
			  As a beginner blogger, you should strongly consider keeping things simple in terms of your blog’s home page layout. More complicated blog layouts often require more work in terms of formatting, updating, and so on. Unless you’re prepared for those technological challenges, stick with more traditional two- or three-column blog layouts.   
			  The important point to remember when creating your blog is that your home page is your blog’s welcome page. Think of its function in much the same way as the exterior of a home. It can either have curb appeal, welcoming readers to stay awhile, or it can turn visitors away.   
			  Don’t try to fit every piece of information you want to share with your visitors on your home page or it will get cluttered and become difficult for your audience to read. Instead, try to create a clean home page with useful information and easy-to-follow links.  
		- About or Profile Page
			- The About page of your blog is simply a biography or description of who you are and why you’re writing your blog. Readers like to know more about the person behind the blog, particularly if your blog offers advice or professional opinion. Your audience needs to believe that you’re qualified to write your blog.
			  Planning to write a more topical and less personal blog? Your About page may focus more on the history of the site than on its author.   
			  Remember that an essential part of becoming a successful blogger is developing relationships with your readers. The strength of a blog often comes from the com-munity that evolves around it. Take the time to write a thorough profile page that shares information about your experience, credentials, and reasons for taking the time to write your blog.   
			  Some bloggers’ profile pages are very long with professional and personal infor-mation included in rich detail. Others are short and to the point. Either approach can work depending on your goals for your blog. Figure 3-7 takes a look at the About page for the JUST is a Four Letter Word blog.  
		- Posts
			- Each entry that you write and publish on your blog is called a post. Those posts are typically displayed on your blog’s home page in the order that you published them with the most recent appearing at the top of the page. 
			  A certain number of posts appear on the home page, depending on the settings you choose within your blogging application. You can find older posts by clicking a link that appears at the bottom of the posts on the home page and each subse-quent page. (The link is usually labeled Previous Posts, Previous Entries, or some-thing similar.) You can also find older entries by using the archive and category features of your blog, as described later in this chapter.   
			  All blogs include posts. The exception occurs when someone uses a blogging application to create a more traditional website, but then it could be argued that those sites aren’t really blogs at all. The essential element that makes a website a blog is the post feature, therefore it’s safe to say that all blogs, in the traditional sense, include posts.   
			  Your blog posts typically include a few common elements, including an author byline, date, title, the post content, links, images, and comments. A sample blog post is shown in Figure 3-8, showing the various elements in detail.  
		- Comments
			- Comments appear at the end of a blog post. Most bloggers allow anyone to leave a comment, using the comment moderation tool in their blogging applications to filter inappropriate and spam comments before they’re actually published. You can read more about comment moderation in Chapter 2 of Book 6.
			  People like to offer their own opinions, and blog commenting allows them to do exactly that. Commenting helps readers feel involved and part of the commu-nity on your blog. That’s a powerful thing when it comes to growing your blog, especially because you want your readers to share your content with others. It’s important to acknowledge the people who leave comments on your blog and show them you value them by responding to those comments and engaging the people who leave them. That’s how you build relationships with your readers.   
			  As your blog grows, so too will the number of comments your posts receive. Figure 3-9 shows an example of a blog post with comments. Don’t be discouraged if your blog doesn’t get a lot of comments, especially in the beginning. If you stay committed, keep writing, share your content regularly, and continue interacting with the people who do leave comments on your posts, eventually more com-ments should come. Patience is key to your blog’s success and growing your blog’s community.  
		- Categories or Labels
			- Depending on the blogging application that you use, you might be able to categorize your blog posts (as WordPress lets you do) or attach labels to them in an informal categorization system (as with Blogger). Regardless of the specific functionality available to you, the end result is similar. Categories (or labels) cre-ate an easy way for readers to find old content related to specific topics.
			  Most bloggers include a list of categories (or labels) in their blog’s navigation bar, either across the top of the blog or along one side, making it extremely easy for readers to find additional content of interest. The list of categories at the top of Andrea’s blog in a format called a horizontal navigation bar is shown in Figure 3-10. This category list guides readers to posts about recipes, travel, and holidays.   
			  Make sure you take the time to categorize or label your blog posts well so readers have no trouble finding older blog posts.  
			  Use labels and categories that are intuitive. Consider what term you would search for in order to find the type of content in your blog posts and then label or cate-gorize your content to match.  
		- Sidebar
			- Sidebars give your blog flexibility. Although you can have a blog with just one col-umn containing your blog posts, it’s not common. Bloggers typically use a two- or three-column format where sidebars appear to the left and/or right of the blog post column. It’s easy to fall into the trap of filling your sidebars with as many elements as you can possibly squeeze into them, such as ads, links, and so on. However, your sidebars should offer information and links that are truly useful to your readers. If an element doesn’t add value to the user experience, leave it out of your sidebar. 
			  Just because you have space that can be filled in your blog’s sidebar, that doesn’t mean you have to fill it. Less is more.  
			  Perhaps the biggest trap bloggers fall into when creating their blogs’ sidebars is related to advertising. If you decide to include ads in your blog’s sidebar to make money, then it’s easy to clutter your sidebar with every kind of ad you can get access to. That’s a huge mistake though. Blogs that are covered in ads create a negative user experience. Instead, try testing just a few ads in your sidebars. Analyze the results and then choose the advertising opportunities that make the most sense for your blog, your audience, and your revenue goals. You can learn all about blog monetization, including advertising, in Book 7.   
			  So what should go in your blog’s sidebar? The following is a list of some of the most common sidebar elements that bloggers use, which you might want to include in your own blog:  
			- »	A link to your About (or profile) page
			  »	Your picture   
			  »	Link to the best way to connect with you   
			  »	Links to your blog’s social media profiles  
			  »	Your blog’s subscription information   
			  »	A list of blog post categories or labels   
			  »	Links to your blog archives by date   
			  »	Ads   
			  »	A blogroll (essentially, a list of links to other blogs you like)   
			  »	A list of links to your recent blog posts   
			  »	A list of links to your popular blog posts  
		- Header
			- Your blog’s header can be loosely compared to a newspaper masthead. The area stretches across the top of every page of your blog and typically includes your blog’s name, an image or logo, and possibly a slogan or short description of your blog. Your blog’s header is what brands your blog and tells readers where they are when they arrive on your site. Think about it: Would you know you were on the New York Times website if the header at the top of the page didn’t tell you so? Most people wouldn’t know. The same principle holds true for your blog. 
			  That’s why taking the time to create a great header is important. Try to make your header distinct and in line with your blog’s brand or distinct identity. Branding is covered in more detail in Book 7, but the basic idea is for reader’s to easily identify your blog’s name and identity. Use a font that’s easy to read and an image that you own or are allowed to use based on its copyright license, described in more detail in Chapter 4 of this Book.  
			  Depending on the template that you use to create your blog, or if you hire a designer to help you create your blog, you may be able to include additional ele-ments in your blog’s header. Some people include a search bar, subscription area, or ads in their blog’s header. Figure 3-12 shows the header for JUST is a Four Let-ter Word (www.justisafourletterword.com), which includes links to blog post categories, an email sign-up, a link to the About page, a link to the blog’s shop, and a place to search blog content.  
		- Footer
			- A blog footer typically spans across the bottom of the screen on all pages of your blog. Although it’s not essential to include a footer in your blog’s design, it’s a great place to put copyright information. In fact, some people use the space in their footer for far more than just disclaimers and legalese.
			- Following are some suggestions of elements to include in your blog’s footer:
				- »	Copyright and disclaimer statements 
				  »	Links to terms and conditions of use and privacy statements   
				  »	Link to your email address   
				  »	Your contact information, such as your phone number or address (primarily useful for business blogs)  
				- »	Ads 
				  »	Links to other resources within or outside of your blog   
				  »	Links to your social networking, bookmarking, and Twitter profiles  
				  »	Feeds from other blogs you write or enjoy  
		- Blogroll or links
			- Depending on what blogging application you choose, you have the option to include a blogroll or list of links in your blog’s sidebar (or footer, depending on your blog’s template layout). A blogroll (or link list) is a list of links to other blogs that you like and recommend to your readers. 
			  In the early days of blogging, blogrolls were powerful tools that directly led to increased traffic. There were a few reasons for this phenomenon. First, getting your blog’s link listed on other blogs meant that other people who read those blogs might notice the link, follow it, and start reading your blog, too. If the blog-ger linking to you in their blogroll has a popular, well-trafficked blog, the number of click-throughs to your blog could be quite high. Second, each incoming link to your blog is weighted as a positive in Google’s search algorithm. In other words, having more incoming links (particularly from popular websites and blogs) means your blog is ranked higher by Google, driving your pages up higher in related keyword searches. Higher rankings provide the potential for more search traffic.  
			  Today, the power of blogrolls isn’t what it once was. For example, there are com-panies that pay for links in blogrolls, which diminishes the value of them to read-ers. Many blogrolls are created and forgotten  — making the links in them less than useful to people as time passes — and links break or the content on blogs becomes outdated. Also, originally, adding links to a blogroll was considered a reciprocal practice. If you added someone’s blog to your blogroll, you could con-tact them to let them know, and they would almost always link back to you. It was an unwritten rule of blog etiquette. That rule doesn’t necessarily apply today. In fact, many blogs don’t even include blogrolls anymore.  
			- However, blogrolls can still be a good networking tool, and if you’re truly sharing links to blogs that you think your readers can benefit from and enjoy, it’s an ele-ment you can provide as an added benefit. In other words, a useful blogroll cer-tainly can’t hurt your blog, and it may even help it. 
			  Many bloggers call their blogrolls by an entirely different name these days. For example, you might see a list of links referred to as a blogroll a few years ago now labeled Resources or Helpful Links.  
		- Trackbacks, backlinks, and pingbacks
			- In simplest terms, a trackback, backlink, or pingback are virtual shoulder taps tell-ing other bloggers that you linked to one of their posts in one of your own posts. If you want your blog to grow and be successful, it’s important that you take the time to turn on the trackback or backlink functionality within your blog settings and then actively use it. Doing so lets other bloggers know you like their content enough to link to it, thereby promoting it on your blog, too. By linking to another blogger’s content, you can help to boost their traffic and yours because the process automatically leaves a reciprocal link on the blog post you linked to (assuming the other blogger has the functionality activated on their blog as well). 
			  You can find out more about trackbacks and backlinks as they relate to specific blogging applications in Book 4.  
		- Tags
			- In WordPress, tags are used for search engine optimization purposes as well as blog post categorization. In simplest terms, when you write a new blog post using WordPress, you can input keywords as tags, which sites use to index your content. Additionally, because tags appear as links on your blog post, Google includes them in its indexing process. Either way you look at it, tags can only help your blog posts get found — so long as you don’t overstuff keywords in your blog post tags that is. Figure 3-13 shows what tags look like at the end of a blog post.
			  Depending on the blog template design, tags can appear in different locations, such as at the top or bottom of a blog post. Some bloggers choose not to display them at all.  
		- Template or Theme
			- Every blog is built on a template, which designers and bloggers customize to cre-ate their own blogs’ unique looks. Depending on the blogging application you use, your blog’s layout could be called a template (Blogger) or a theme (WordPress), but either way, the concept is the same. 
			  Many free templates are available to bloggers, which anyone can use. You can also find premium templates that are offered for a fee, making them rarer than the scores of free templates available online and, typically, more customizable and better coded. Some bloggers invest in having a custom template created so their blogs look completely original.   
			  Templates usually include one, two, or three columns, with the blog posts taking up the majority of the space (approximately 75 percent). There are also unique templates for magazine-style sites, portfolios, and more. Long story short, you have what may overwhelmingly feel like unlimited choices when it comes to blog design. The template you ultimately use depends on your technical skills for updating as well as your budget.   
			  Remember, the type of template you decide to use on your blog is entirely up to you. Choose a template that provides the basic look and feel you want your blog to communicate to readers. You can find out more about finding and choosing a template for your blog based on your chosen blogging application in Book 4.  
- Chapter 4 - Blogging Best Practices
	- Disclosing Your Policies
		- Creating policies for your blog is a good way to set reader expectations and protect yourself from unlikely but possible legal entanglements. For example, if someone plagiarizes your content or accuses you of selling their email address, having clear and published policies that show how you handle copyright and privacy issues could be very important.
		  Following are three of the most common policies published on blogs:  
			- Comment policy: Describes what comments are inappropriate and how they’re moderated.
			- »	Disclaimer and Disclosure page: Includes information about sponsored content, affiliate links, and the like.
			  »	Privacy policy: Describes what information is collected about visitors and how that information is used.   
			  »	Terms and Conditions of Site Use page: Describes legal information about your blog, such as copyrights, availability, and warnings.  
	- Creating a Comment Policy
		- Allowing readers to comment on your blog posts is critical to making your blog interactive, building a community of readers, and creating a relationship between yourself and your readers. It is tough to imagine a successful blog with no comments!
		  Unfortunately, some blog readers have nothing nice to say. Try not to take offense at the rude comments left on your blog posts as they often have very little to do with you or even with your content. There are simply some people who go from blog to blog leaving mean remarks. In fact; the blogosphere has a special name for people who leave hateful and obnoxious comments on blogs for no reason other than to stir up trouble: trolls.   
		  It’s your blog, and you can delete any comment you want, but keep in mind that even if you don’t like what someone has to say, an alternative viewpoint (stated in a courteous manner) can add to the conversation. In time, your loyal readers might even step up to the plate and defend your statements from your opponents. The key to successfully balancing the process of publishing and deleting com-ments is to create a comment policy that states exactly what kind of comments will be deleted or edited before they’re published. By publishing a comment policy on your blog, you’re protecting yourself from accusations of controlling the conver-sation on your blog.  
		  You can write your blog comment policy in a friendly or professional tone as long as your rules are clear. You may want to cover the following points in your com-ment policy for any sort of blog:  
			- »	Hateful or attacking language: You can include a rule that says comments that are hateful in nature or attack other visitors will be deleted. 
			  »	Spam: Be sure to include a statement that says all comments that are considered to be potential spam will be deleted.  
			- Editing and deleting: Include language that says you reserve the right to edit or delete all comments that are off-topic, offensive, or detract from the blog community discussion. 
			  Sometimes it’s hard to tell whether a comment is legitimate. If you prefer to err on the side of caution, delete comments that could be spam even if you’re not certain. By including a reference to how potential spam comments are handled on your blog, you’re protecting your right to delete those comments and warning readers to be sure to write useful comments that can’t be perceived as spam. To make your guidelines related to spam comments even clearer, you can include examples of the types of comments that you consider spam and could be deleted within your comment policy.  
			- »	Profanity: You can include a statement saying comments that include profanity will be edited to remove potentially offensive language.
			  »	Links: You can include a statement warning visitors that comments contain-ing more than a specific number of links (such as three links) will automatically be detected as spam and deleted. (Typically, you can configure this setting within your blogging application.)  
	- Writing a Privacy Policy
		- It’s a good idea to include a privacy policy on your blog, particularly if you dis-play ads. A privacy policy is intended to communicate to blog readers how their behavior on your blog (paths taken, links clicked, and so on) will be tracked and how any personal information provided on your blog (such as email addresses in comments or forms and so on) will be used. It is very typical to provide a link to your privacy policy in your blog’s footer. The policy can provide details about any information that’s collected about visitors and their behaviors on your blog, confirmation that you won’t sell any private information given on your blog, and acknowledgement that your site tracks visitors’ behavior through the use of an automated web tracking tool called cookies. (If you participate in ad programs or track your blog usage statistics as described in Chapter 2 of Book 5, your blog probably uses cookies for tracking.)
		- Basically, you want readers of your blog to know that any personal informa-tion they provide won’t be sold to marketers who will start cluttering their email inboxes with offers. You also want to warn them that their behavior on your blog (links they click, the amount of time they spend on your site, and so on) is recorded. Figure 4-7 shows a blog privacy policy example from Neil Patel’s blog (www.neilpatel.com/privacy/).
- Book 2 Niche Blogging Chapter 1
	- Understanding What a niche blog is
		- A niche blog is highly focused — all content and conversations center on a single, specific subject. The audience for a niche blog is typically very connected to the topic and often quite vocal about it. In short, niche bloggers deliver content gems that people want but struggle to find among all the information on broad-topic blogs, and their readers reward them by enthusiastically supporting their blogs. 
		  Niche bloggers understand their audiences. They know readers come to their blogs for specific content, and they don’t disappoint. Niche bloggers strive to continu-ally meet the expectations of their audiences, keeping track of what other bloggers who write about their subject matter in a broader sense are publishing, and fill-ing in the gaps. Niche bloggers also tend to build a strong community with other bloggers within their niche, partly because it’s by definition a small group and partly because they tend to be very passionate about their focus area.   
		  In the same way that niche bloggers bring great enthusiasm to their writing, niche blogs have an amazing opportunity to attract and create very loyal readers because the audience is already connected to and passionate about the subject matter. If readers like the blogger’s voice and content as it relates to that subject matter, the blogger is poised for success.  
	- Differentiating what a niche blog is not
		- Niche blogging is sometimes a term used to discuss blogs created solely for the purpose of Internet marketing and making money. These websites tend to appear quickly and often look rather rudimentary. Rather than focusing on great content and a visually appealing positive reader experience, this type of blog tends to be covered in advertisements and filled with links.
		  Sometimes called a splog, or a spam blog, these sites are set up specifically to earn income quickly through direct advertising and affiliate links. To be clear, that is not the type of niche blogging covered here.  
	- Finding Out what Makes Niche Blogs Successful
		- The success of niche blogs comes primarily from the voices of the bloggers behind them. Typically, the niche blogger is an expert in their niche or feels strongly about it, which gives their blog a unique perspective. However, it doesn’t matter how strongly you feel about a topic: Your blog won’t succeed if there aren’t other people in the world who are equally interested in that topic. 
		  The key to writing a successful niche blog is finding a topic you love that other people are equally passionate about.   
		  For example, many people write blogs about animals. Fewer bloggers write blogs about dogs, and fewer write blogs about a specific breed of dog such as the basset hound. Going a step further, even fewer blogs are written about training basset hounds. Notice how the subjects of the blogs I describe here get more and more focused and thus become about more and more specific niches. You can use the same strategy in identifying the right niche topic for your blog. Take a look at the broader topic and keep narrowing it down until you find the best niche for your blog. You can find out more about choosing a niche blog topic in Chapter 3 of this Book.  
		- Successful niche bloggers position themselves as the go-to people for their spe-cific topics. Establishing yourself as an expert in your blog’s topic could be as easy as listing your education, experience, and other credentials in your profile or biography published on your blog. For example, if you write a blog about preg-nancy and you’re an obstetrician, your authority is easy to establish.
		  If you don’t have any official credentials, don’t despair. You can still position yourself as an expert by publishing authoritative content that’s both meaningful and useful. Also, take some time to showcase your knowledge off on your blog. You can do this by writing guest posts or articles about your blog topic on other blogs and websites and by participating in online forums and social networks where you can share your expertise with more people. Consider teaching courses or speaking at events where your knowledge can be highlighted. In other words, if you don’t have credentials when you start your niche blog and you want your blog to grow and be successful, you should make an effort to create them. Don’t be afraid to think outside of the box and pursue unique opportunities to establish your expertise both on- and offline.  
		  Patience is paramount when it comes to building a niche blog. Successful niche bloggers start small in terms of topic and scope. Over time and with patience and persistence their reputation and blog traffic grow.  
		  A great example of a niche blogger’s success comes from Gayla Baer-Taylor, the former owner of a blog called MomGadget, who started her blog in 2000 as a step in building a career working from home. Her blog evolved to focus sharply on reviewing and discussing gadgets that make parents’ lives easier. Gayla got the idea for her blog after attending a baby shower and seeing how excited she and the other attendees got about the various gadgets the expectant parent received to ease the transition to parenthood.   
		  The origins of Gayla’s success can be attributed to her ability to recognize a niche, capitalize on it, and develop her online presence as an expert in her blog’s topic with a large audience of followers. By establishing her niche, she was ultimately able to grow in a new direction just as businesses broaden their product lines after they find success in their core competencies.  
		  Over the years, MomGadget grew in scope to include content about broader family-related topics as well as working-from-home tips based on her own blog-ging experience; however, without establishing her niche audience first, it would have been extremely difficult for Gayla to find success competing against broader topic blogs with deeper pockets and wider reach. By developing her core audience first, she was able to introduce new topics to her loyal followers while continuing to meet their existing expectations, thereby growing her blog exponentially and enabling her to ultimately sell it. The trick is to find your niche and build a follow-ing around it before you try to expand in broader directions.  
	- Benefiting from the Positives of Niche Blogging
		- Loyal Readers and Community
		- Less Competition
		- Long-tail search engine optimization
		- Opportunities beyond the blog
		- Targeted advertising opportunities
	- Identifying the Drawbacks
		- Lower Traffic smaller audience
		- The Startup curse
		- etc
- Chapter 2 Benefiting from a Niche Blog approach
	- Finding your focus and keepig it
		- All bloggers have days where they wake up feeling less motivated than they do on other days. You can find ideas on how to get over blogger’s block in Chapter 2 of Book 1, but the challenge of staying focused and inspired can be even more dif-ficult for niche bloggers. No matter how passionate you are about your chosen niche, boredom can be an inevitable part of writing about the same subject day in and day out. Because niche bloggers write about highly specific topics, there might appear to be less room for creativity in your writing. Some bloggers errone-ously think that niche blogging is too confining or limiting, but that assumption couldn’t be further from the truth. 
		  Niche bloggers zero in on the specific subtopic of a broader subject, but that doesn’t mean they need to become prisoners of their self-selected niches. Don’t believe me? Take a trip around the blogosphere and start reading niche blogs on a wide variety of targeted subjects. Analyze what those bloggers are writing about and determine how you can creatively use similar ideas to enhance your own niche blog content.   
		  One way to get creative while remaining focused on your niche is to categorize the types of information you want to share on your blog related to your niche. Think of categories within a niche blog as even more focused topics within an already highly focused subject! Blogging lends itself well to categorization through the tools built into common blogging platforms such as WordPress and Blogger, as shown in Figure 2-1.  
		  For example, My Halal Kitchen (www.myhalalkitchen.com) by Yvonne Maffei breaks the niche topic of halal cooking and eating down to the following catego-ries as shown in Figure 2-2:  
			- »	Food 
			  »	Travel   
			  »	Life   
			  »	What is halal cooking?   
			  »	Shop  
		- Staying inspired to continue to create content within your niche doesn’t have to be a challenge if you break your niche into the smallest areas of concentration pos-sible and then make sure you’re delivering content related to each of those areas. You may be surprised at how many subtopics relate to your blog’s larger focus and how easy that makes it to keep the creative juices flowing!
	- Generating Traffic and Capturing an Audience
		- SEO
			- Search engine optimization, or SEO, refers to steps bloggers take to appear near the top of search engine keyword searches. SEO is covered in depth in Book 5, Chapter 1.
			  Niche blogs offer both negatives and positives when it comes to search engine optimization:  
				- The bad news: It’s difficult for niche bloggers to compete for high search rankings for common, broad search terms (although not impossible). The problem is that broad search terms are very competitive. A small, beginner blogger has a hard time fighting for high search rankings for common keywords when so many strong, established websites and blogs are fighting for the exact same thing.
				- The good news: Niche blogs can rank very high for very specific search terms. As mentioned in Chapter 1 of this book, such traffic is said to come from long-tail search engine optimization benefits, and many bloggers work diligently to capitalize on that long-tail traffic by optimizing their posts with very specific keyword phrases in mind.
		- Think of it this way: If you can’t compete for a search term like Hawaii, you might be able to appear near the top of a search for a specific search phrase such as res-taurants in Kaanapali Hawaii. And there would be your niche! Instead of writing a blog and posts about Hawaii in general, a topic that’s covered over and over across the Web and blogosphere, why not corner the market on the topic of dining in one of the most popular tourist cities on the island of Maui? Suddenly, your competi-tion for that specific phrase is much smaller than it would be for the broader term, and that’s how long-tail search engine optimization, that is, optimizing your site for very specific keywords that attract a highly targeted audience, can benefit a niche blog’s traffic growth exponentially.
	- Link Benefits
		- As you publish more and more posts on your blog, your archive of content will grow. At the same time, your blog traffic will grow through steps such as net-working with other bloggers and optimizing your posts with targeted keyword phrases. Congratulations! More visitors to your site means more people who might like your content enough to mention it on their own blogs where they can link to it and drive more traffic to it.
		  To learn more about links from one blog to another, visit Book 5, Chapter 1. Your blog readers may also decide to share links to posts they enjoy through their social media accounts, such as Facebook or Twitter.   
		  Each link to one of your blog posts could mean more traffic to your blog.  
		  Furthermore, with each new link to your blog, your blog’s search engine rank-ings could get a boost. Search engines takes incoming links to your blog seriously when determining which sites appear in search results, so when your blog attracts a lot of incoming links, particularly from popular websites and blogs, your blog’s search engine ranking goes up. Appearing higher in search rankings will drive more traffic to your blog.  
		- Not all incoming links are equal. Search engines, such as Google, weigh incoming links from popular sites high, but links from spam sites and links that are paid for can actually get your blog removed from Google search rankings entirely. Organic, real growth is far more valuable to your blog’s success than quick, manufactured growth.
	- Organic Growth
		- Organic growth is a long-term blog-traffic-growth strategy that happens naturally as the amount of content on your blog grows and your efforts at engaging in con-versations across the blogosphere boost your online exposure. The key to achiev-ing organic growth is to continually publish great content, particularly content that no one else is writing about or with your own unique spin. Use your unique voice and become a vocal, contributing member of the blogosphere by network-ing and building relationships with other bloggers and blog readers. In time, your blog traffic will grow slowly but steadily as a result of your efforts. You can find out more about the methods of increasing organic growth through the section “Networking with Other People in Your Niche,” later in this chapter.
	- Establishing Yourself as an Expert
		- As a niche blogger, you have the opportunity to become recognized as an author-ity on your subject matter. This is true particularly if you have credentials such as an education or work experience related to your niche blog topic. However, a passion for and deep knowledge of your subject could be enough to establish you as an expert. The recognition of your expertise depends partly on the content you publish on your blog as well as the tone with which you write. Even a blog that’s based completely on opinion could become an online go-to place for information on a specific subject. Again, it depends in part on your writing style and the type of information or opinion you publish on your blog. 
		  Consider these two blogs: a blog about California state politics written by a person who works for a member of the state government versus a blog about California state politics written by an unhappy citizen who publishes little more than personal rants and complaints. Which blogger is likely to become known in the online community as an expert in his particular niche and become the go-to person for information related to California state politics? Of course, the answer is the former example — the blogger who works within the California state political scene every day. Alternatively, the opinion blogger could become considered an expert if his blog was written in a more professional tone, rather than rants and complaints. A personal opinion blogger can be recognized as an expert, but the tone needs to match that of an expert rather than a complainer.   
		  The bottom line is that blogging provides a unique opportunity for people to become recognized as knowledgeable within their fields of expertise or interest. However, not every blogger earns the reputation of being an expert that people can rely on for great information. If you want to become known as an expert in your niche blog topic, your content needs to match that intent.  
	- Gaining Online Exposure
		- Online exposure is quite simply being seen and recognized throughout the Internet. While some bloggers joke that working for the chance of exposure doesn’t pay the bills, it can lead to money-making opportunities! You can boost your online exposure and drive traffic to your blog in many ways. Networking and building relationships are discussed in detail in the next section, but you can also pursue other online tactics to boost your online exposure. Take a look at the following list to get some ideas:
		- »	Write articles. Many websites offer repositories of articles and content written by people from all walks of life. Some sites even offer a form of payment for the content you contribute, and all offer ways for you to link that content back to your blog for added exposure and traffic.
		  Be sure to read the terms and conditions of article sites to ensure the copyright and payment terms match your current and future goals.   
		  »	Create videos. Video offers a great way to boost traffic to your blog through the use of another medium. Create videos and upload them to popular video-friendly social media sites such as YouTube, Instagram, and Facebook.   
		  »	Create podcasts. Audio is another medium that people enjoy online, and it provides another way to drive traffic to your blog. You can start an online radio show on a site, such as BlogTalkRadio (www.blogtalkradio.com), or create podcasts, which you can publish on your blog as well as on audio sites such as iTunes (www.apple.com/itunes).   
		  »	Share presentations. SlideShare (www.slideshare.net), shown in Figure 2-4, offers a great way for people to upload and share presentations — a perfect way to further establish yourself as an expert and provide links to your blog.   
		  »	Share pictures. If you write a niche blog that lends itself to visuals, upload them to picture-sharing sites such Flickr (www.flickr.com) with links back to your blog.  
		- The opportunities for increasing your online exposure and driving traffic to your blog are virtually limitless. Don’t be afraid to get creative, test new tactics, and find the right mix for you and your blog. Learn more about opportunities for blog-gers off of their blogs in Book 8.
	- Network with other People in your Niche
		- Perhaps the best way to increase niche blog traffic and attract loyal readers is net-working both on and off your blog. You can use both formal and informal methods to network and build relationships with people online in order to grow your blog. Take a look at some of the following suggestions to get started on your journey to boost your blog’s readership:
		- Respond to comments on your blog. Take the time to respond to all comments left on your blog. Doing so shows your readers that you value their opinions and provides the opportunity to get to know them better and build relationships with them. 
		  Relationships lead to loyalty, and loyalty leads to increased blog readership over time.  
		- »	Leave comments on other blogs in your niche. Visit other blogs in your niche and take the time to leave useful comments on posts you enjoy. Ask questions and follow up to keep the conversation going. Be sure to include your blog’s URL in the appropriate field of the blog comment form to drive traffic back to your blog. The blogger will get to know you, and a relationship will develop naturally. Once you’re on other bloggers’ radar screens, they’re more likely to follow your blog, leave comments on your posts, and link to your blog, thereby driving traffic to it.
		  »	Connect with people on social networking sites. Take the time to find and connect with people who write and work in your niche on Facebook, LinkedIn, and other social networking sites. Then share content with them and build relationships with them, and as a result, your blog traffic might just grow organically over time.   
		  »	Write guest posts for other blogs in your niche. Reach out to other bloggers who write about your niche or write about broader subjects related to your niche and offer to write guest posts for them. Busy bloggers are likely to welcome a guest post from you, and it’s a great way to not only build relationships with those bloggers but also get your name in front of their established audiences. Be sure to include a link to your blog in your guest post or bio.   
		  »	Send emails to other bloggers in your niche. Find other blogs about your niche or about a broader subject related to your niche and reach out directly via email to the bloggers who write them. Introduce yourself and the idea of working together to promote and support one another!   
		  »	Attend blogging conferences or events related to your niche. You’d be amazed at the number of people you can meet and the networking you can do at conferences and events related to blogging or your niche topic.   
		  There are not only conferences related to blogging in general — many conferences and events exist for niche blogs. For example, TBEX (www. tbexcon.com), shown in Figure 2-5, is a yearly conference aimed at travel bloggers and industry professionals.   
		  »	Join forums and groups related to your niche and get involved. Because so many online forums and groups are available online, one is bound to be related to your blog’s niche. Take some time to find them and then join and start posting comments, questions, and answers to other members’ ques-tions. Forums are a great way to build relationships with other people who are interested in your niche topic and to lead them to your blog for more information and conversation.  
- Chapter 3 Choosing Your Niche
	- Determining Your Niche Blogging Goals
		- Choosing your blog’s niche topic is dependent partly on your goals for your blog. Naturally, if you’re writing your blog solely for pleasure and not defining success in terms of traffic or money-making opportunities, you can choose any niche that interests you. How much time you dedicate to writing your blog or the tone you use matters only to you and your readers if you’re writing it only for yourself and your community. 
		  However, if you have objectives for your blog that include growing your read-ership, becoming recognized within the larger audience of your blog’s topic, or making money, the niche topic you choose is absolutely essential to increasing your chances of attaining those objectives. Writing a niche blog comes with unique opportunities to find success both on and off your blog. To help you get started in creating your own goals for your niche blog, the remainder of this section teaches you about five of the most common objectives niche bloggers strive to achieve.  
		  Don’t choose your blog’s niche topic until you determine your short- and long-term goals for your blog. Those goals could greatly affect the niche topic that you ultimately write about on your blog. You can find out more about setting blogging goals in Chapter 2 of Book 1.  
	- Building Your Expertise
		- Many people start blogging because they view it as a low-cost way to build their online platforms and establish themselves as experts across a wide audience they can’t otherwise reach. The blogosphere attracts readers from around the world and from all walks of life. If you want to establish a reputation as an expert in a particular area, you can do so through blogging. This is particularly true of niche bloggers who focus their content on specific topics and become the go-to sources in their areas of expertise. Over time, bloggers who earn reputations as experts often find themselves called upon for national news media coverage, book writ-ing, and more. 
		  As you might expect, your success in establishing yourself as an expert in a spe-cific area comes not only from your background experience and education but also from the content you write on your blog. In a crowded blogosphere, the bloggers who focus on niche areas can fill the gaps left by the jack-of-all-trades bloggers and corner the market on their topics.  
		- For example, rather than writing a blog all about blogging, Lorelle VanFossen knew her area of expertise was in the WordPress blogging platform, and she cre-ated a niche blog where she writes with knowledge and passion for her subject. Her blog, Lorelle on WordPress (http://lorelle.wordpress.com), is shown in Figure 3-1.
		- Today, Lorelle is known across the web as one of the key people for information, tips, and education about using WordPress. She has written books on the subject, contributes to other high-profile blogs about blogging, and frequently speaks at industry events. What started as a niche blog has not only established Lorelle as an expert in her field but also opened new doors of opportunity to her.
		  Of course, you can’t expect to start a blog on any specific subject and become known as the expert in the subject matter automatically. A niche blogger can attract and retain readers only if they write about a topic about which they have both experience and knowledge. Readers can see through a blog written by a per-son who lacks knowledge or experience. This is one area where the old adage “fake it until you make it” does not apply! The mark of a successful niche blogger is a thorough understanding of the subject matter based on first-hand experience, which enables them to speak intelligently and authoritatively.   
		  Think of it this way: If you need to find information about building a deck onto the back of your house, would you rather read a blog on the topic written by a master carpenter or one written by a novice wood-working hobbyist? I don’t know about you, but I’d like my new deck to be structurally sound! Certainly, the former blogger would provide more authoritative content and could more easily establish themselves as an expert in their blog’s niche topic than the latter blogger.  
		- The same principle holds true for your own niche blog. When you contemplate niche topics, consider why you should be the person writing a blog on that subject. Determine what makes your blog stand out from others on the same or similar subjects. Decide what unique content or perspectives you have that can attract readers and make them want to build relationships with you and turn into mem-bers of your loyal blog community. As such, your standing as an expert in your blog’s niche topic will grow organically. 
		  There is one caveat to the guideline that you should come to your blog’s niche topic with a certain level of experience. Some bloggers have successfully created online communities around the idea that they’re trying — and writing about — something completely new to them. In this case the niche topic isn’t so much the new skill they’re trying or subject they’re researching, but rather it is the learning process itself. This is something to keep in mind if there’s a topic you’d love to write about, but you are not yet a pro in that area of interest!  
	- Sharing your Passion
		- People who are passionate about the subjects they write about write the best niche blogs. That passion shines through in their writing and both grabs and holds the attention of readers. No matter how successful you are at attracting readers, if your content is dull, those readers won’t stick around for very long. If readers have a hard time getting through a single post without being bored, your blog has little chance for success. 
		  Niche blogs are different from broader topic blogs because the authors behind them typically have made conscious decisions to focus on a topic they love rather than attempting to cover a large range of topics. If this applies to you, don’t hold back in your writing. It is a common mistake for bloggers to write posts they believe will be the most successful rather than writing what they’re most inspired to write. Let your passion for your blog’s topic spill out onto the screen! Don’t let your words die a quick death because they’re torturously boring. Instead, let your passion for your niche subject shine through, and readers will get caught up in your enthusiasm, too.   
		  Prescott Perez-Fox (www.scottperezfox.medium.com) is a wonderful example of a blogger who unapologetically allows his passion to shine through in every aspect of his writing. Shown in Figure 3-2, his blog provides insight into the topic of branding, offering a unique perspective on the popular marketing subject. As he writes in his About page (www.perezfox.com), he is “proud to be an oddball and sideways thinker.” His passion for his subject along with his experience and knowledge make his blog stand out from the crowd of blogs about branding.  
		- In other words, if you’re very passionate about a topic, that could be the perfect subject for your niche blog! At the very least, that topic offers a great place for you to start your quest to select a niche blog topic.
	- Offering your Opinion
		- If you’re educated or experienced in a specific subject, or even if you just hold strong opinions about that subject, it could be a good choice for your niche blog topic. Niche bloggers who are very knowledgeable in their subject matter provide authoritative content and can easily become recognized across the blogosphere as experts. Alternatively, people with strong opinions on a specific subject can gain reputations as pundits, as long as their opinions are expressed as authoritative commentary rather than mere complaints or rants. 
		  Readers look for blogs written by people with both experience and knowledge as well as by people who simply have strong opinions. While many bloggers write blogs about topics related to their work, there are also plenty of blogs that have nothing to do with the writer’s day job and instead focus on an outside area of interest. Both types of bloggers can find audiences across the blogosphere. The trick is to understand which type of blogger you are (or want to be), choose a topic that matches your level of experience or opinion, and then stick to it.  
	- Networking and Building Relationships
		- Many bloggers start their blogs to find other people with similar interests for personal or professional networking. The blogosphere provides a place for you to interact with people from across the globe and forge relationships with them that can be helpful in terms of sharing ideas and learning from each other as well as boosting your online exposure and driving traffic to your blog.
		  Networking and building relationships start with writing great content on your own blog that invites comments and discussion. By responding to comments left on your blog and leaving comments on other blogs about your niche, you can start to create your own network of online relationships. Many bloggers find great success thanks to the community that forms around their blogs as well as the relationships that they make with people on other blogs, social networking sites, forums, and more. For example, there are many online forums and groups ded-icated to more topics than you could possibly imagine. From Harley Davidson owners to work-at-home moms (see Figure  3-4 for a popular work-at-home mom’s forum at www.wahm.com/forum) and everything in between, there’s prob-ably a forum or group for it.  
	- Making Money
		- The number of people who start blogs with high aspirations of making lots of money grows every day. Unfortunately, making money from your blog is chal-lenging and often takes a lot of time and patience. However, you can speed up the process, or at least increase your chances of success, by choosing a niche topic that’s easier to monetize. You can find out more about choosing a niche to make money later in this chapter. For now, it’s important to understand that it’s possi-ble to make money from a niche blog. 
		  If you hope to earn an income from your niche blog, you need to be sure there are moneymaking opportunities available that are at least somewhat related to your blog’s subject matter before selecting that blog topic. Irrelevant sponsored con-tent and ads are unlikely to be useful to your audience, and that could potentially drive readers away. Fewer readers means fewer clicks and less traffic, which in turn leads to fewer advertisers interested in purchasing ad space on your blog.   
		  Bottom line, if you want to make money from your blog, you need to choose a niche that has a built-in audience, but you also need to be certain that relevant advertising programs and opportunities are available for your niche. If making money is important to you, be sure to read Book 7 for all the details about mon-etizing your blog that you need to get started on the right path to success.  
	- ID Niches that Might Work for you
		- 1.	Think of a broad topic that you’re passionate and knowledgeable about. Here’s an example: After much thought, you determine that you’re both passionate and knowledgeable about writing, but a lot of blogs and websites 
		  are dedicated to the broad topic of writing already.   
			2. Narrow down the broader topic into smaller categories.  
You can divide writing into categories such as book writing, article writing, copywriting, freelance writing, writing for pleasure, fiction writing, nonfiction writing, screenplay writing, and much more.
			3. Choose a few of those categories that you’re interested in and break  
them into even smaller segments.  
Using the category of fiction writing, you can break it down by genre or  
audience as fantasy writing, memoir writing, children’s writing, young adult writing, and so on.
			4. Select some of those subcategories and break them down even further.  
For example, the young adult writing segment could be broken down into  
writing how-to guides, reviews, and specific genres to start.
			5. When you have your categories broken down to small enough segments, choose the ones that interest you the most and which you think you can write about passionately, intelligently, and frequently for a long time to come. You might choose a niche category for your blog, such as young adult fiction,  
and focus your content on strategies, trends, success stories, reviews, and  
how-to’s, as they all relate to writing young adult fiction.

	- Determining the Audience Potential
		- A niche blog’s success depends in part on the potential audience size for that niche. For example, no matter how much a person might love the topic of teach-ing parrots to do tricks, only so many people in the world are also interested in that topic. Therein is the struggle for a blogger who wants to successfully create an online community around their blog or turn their blog into a money-making opportunity. 
		  With that in mind, you need to determine the audience potential for your niche blog topic. Of course, if your only goals are to blog for fun with no plans to build your online exposure or make money, it won’t matter to you how many other people are interested in your niche blog topic. If that is you, then feel free to skip past the following sections and dive right in with your chosen topic! However, the vast majority of bloggers do want to build an audience of readers, establish them-selves as experts, or make money from their blogs. If you’re one of those bloggers, you need to do some research before you make your final niche topic choice.  
		  You can start your research by finding and spending time on other blogs that are either broadly or specifically related to your potential niche blog topics. This is one way to get a good idea of what people are interested in and talking about, and you’ll have a chance to find any gaps or unique angles on the topic that you can bring to your own blog. Next, you need to do some keyword research. These steps help you identify the potential traffic your blog could draw over time.  
		  Nothing is guaranteed with blogging. The research you do now only tells you the potential for your niche blog; it doesn’t guarantee success. Instead, success comes from your hard work, dedication, and passion for blogging.  
	- Researching Existing niche blogs
		- There are two primary reasons for researching existing niche blogs as part of your process to choose your own niche topic:
	- Google ALerts
		- Google offers a great tool called Google Alerts that provides a way for you to keep track of what’s being published online related to your niche blog topic. When you set up a Google Alert for a specific search term, you receive an email notifying you when new content is published online with that search term. To set up your own Google Alert, follow these steps:
	- Social Media Searches
		- Conversations about niche blog topics don’t only occur on those blogs. Social media searches are a great way to get a sense of the potential audience for your selected niche blog topic. For example, if you search for the term pineapple reci-pes while considering launching a blog focused primarily on that subject and the results returned are few and far between, you may want to go back to the drawing board before launching your site.
		- To get started, take a look at the following platforms when gauging potential interest in your blog’s topic:
		- »	Pinterest 
		  »	Facebook   
		  »	Instagram   
		  »	Twitter   
		  »	LinkedIn   
		  »	Reddit  
	- Performing Keyword Searches
		- Keyword research is critical to determine whether the niche you want to write about is something that people are actually looking for through search engines.
		- The reality of blogging is that a lot of your blog’s traffic comes from search engine keyword searches. If you have goals to draw a lot of visitors to your blog, you need to be sure that not only are people looking for keywords related to your niche, but also that your content is optimized for those keywords. 
		  Much of your blog’s traffic will come from online searches, particularly in the early life of your blog before readers begin to share your content through social media.   
		  Chapter 1 of Book 5 takes a closer look at available keyword search tools, both paid and free. During the process of selecting your niche blog’s topic, it makes the most sense to stick to the tools that offer free accounts, but as you dive in more to blogging and the use of keywords, consider upgrading if you’re serious about keyword analysis.  
	- Google Search
		- An easy place to begin looking at the popularity of a keyword search is to simply conduct a traditional search on Google using keywords you would use if you were looking for the type of content you plan to publish on your blog. Think like a reader would and use the keywords they would be likely to use. After you conduct your keyword search, scroll to the bottom of the first page of search results provided by Google (as shown in Figure 3-8) and notice the list of keyword phrases under the “Related searches” section. This is a list of other popular search terms that Google identifies as being similar to your search term, and this list can give you great ideas of the ways people are searching for the type of content you provide on your blog!
		- Want additional keyword information but in a different format? About the middle of the first page of Google search results you will find the “People also ask” sec-tion, as shown in Figure 3-9. These questions are real searches that Google search engine users have performed that are related to your keyword or phrase.
		- Another way to utilize Google search when selecting the niche topic for your blog is to make note of the number of pages of results returned when you perform a Google search for that topic. For example, a search of Schuylkill County Kosher Res-taurants only returns six pages of results, as shown in Figure 3-10. This is a helpful clue that perhaps a blog focused entirely on restaurant reviews of places serving kosher food in Schuylkill County, Pennsylvania, would not be highly trafficked or able to provide very much content.
	- Google Trends
		- Google Trends (trends.google.com) is a tool provided free by Google that shows a list of the most popular search terms on Google at any given time. If your niche blog topic is particularly timely, Google Trends just might be a good place to get an idea of exactly how people are searching for your topic right now. For exam-ple, Figure 3-11 shows the top recently trending search terms according to Google Trends at the moment I’m writing this chapter.
		- Keep in mind that the keyword analysis described in this chapter tells you only what’s happening online right now. It’s possible your niche might be growing in popularity, and you could be one of the first bloggers to stake a claim in that niche. It’s also possible that a topic that’s hot right now might decline in popularity in the future.
- Chapter 4 Writing for your niche
	- Writing different types of posts
		- The easiest way to breathe life into a niche blog is by varying the types of posts you publish. Although you need to create your own unique style and voice that readers will associate with your blog, that doesn’t mean you need to adhere to a stringent style guide. Sometimes you can even present the exact same idea in a different way using a different type of blog post, appealing to a different segment of your audience without sounding repetitive.
		  As an example, consider a blog post on a young adult fiction blog about writing dialogue that teens actually believe. You can write a post called Young Adult Dia-logue: The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly, where you provide examples of good and bad dialogue to help readers learn the difference. Alternatively, you can publish a post called 10 Tips for Writing Great Young Adult Dialogue where you provide ten very specific tips to help your blog readers learn to write compelling dialogue for their intended audiences. Both posts focus on the same aspect of writing for young adults but with very different approaches, making them unique and able to add value to your readers’ experiences on your blog.  
		  Following is a short list of types of posts you can write on your niche blog to keep the content fresh without straying too far from your niche topic:  
		- »	How-to: Providing step-by-step tutorials to teach your readers how to accomplish a task is another way to present content that people love. How-to posts work very well on niche blogs because you can provide very detailed instructions about a specific topic your audience is certain to be interested in already. There’s also a good chance that your readers have a basic under-standing of the related broader topic, allowing you to go in-depth with your how-to posts. 
		  »	Don’ts: Just as people like to read tips and how-to’s, they also like to know what they should avoid. Tell them in a blog post and be specific!  
		  »	Videos: Turn your readers into viewers by including video content on your site. Create your own videos or embed videos other people create so you can share them with your readers and provide your opinions related to them in order to enhance your own content. Remember to stay relevant to your niche topic to meet reader expectations.  
		- »	Polls: Everyone likes to give their opinion. Invite them to do so in a poll that you publish in a blog post. People who read niche blogs typically have strong opinions on the narrow topic and are highly likely to jump into the conversa-tion if they’re asked to do so.
		  »	Reader questions: Blog readers often email questions or leave questions within the comments section of your blog posts. Those questions can become great blog posts where you provide the answers! For niche bloggers, this is particularly helpful because the content of your blog is very focused. Chances are good that if one person has a question about the niche topic, a lot of other readers have similar questions!  
		  »	Reviews: Help your readers with important information about niche-related products and services by providing your own reviews that are very closely related to your niche topic. Although it might be tempting to review unrelated products and services, especially if they’re provided for free, niche bloggers need to pay close attention to meeting reader expectations. Unhelpful reviews aren’t likely to meet those expectations. In fact, they can confuse and even annoy your readers.  
		- If you choose to review products that have been provided to you for free, be sure to disclose to your readers that you received the product in exchange for your review post! Learn more about this type of disclosure in Chapter 4 of Book 7.
			- Links: Publishing blog posts that include links (sometimes called link round-ups) of posts from other blogs that you enjoy is a great way to grow your online network and drive traffic back and forth between your blog and other blogs that you like or recommend. For niche bloggers, link roundups are like mining gold. Find the best bloggers in your niche or up-and-coming bloggers and link to them to start a relationship. Bloggers understand that helping each other through sharing content and links can help both blogs grow.
			- »	News: What’s going on in the world related to your niche blog topic? You can write about it on your niche blog! Don’t just report the news, though. Be sure to add your own opinion, knowledge, or experience to your posts to ensure readers receive added value from your blog beyond the information they can find elsewhere online. Take the opportunity to demonstrate your knowledge or expertise in your niche within your commentary.
			  »	Trends: If you know of new or interesting trends related to your blog topic, write about them on your blog and start discussions about what those shifting trends might mean to your topic, to you, and to your audience. Again, trend posts are a great way to further establish your expertise, passion, and knowledge in your niche topic.  
			  »	Success stories: Research other people who have achieved great success in some way related to your niche topic. Such stories can be both educational and motivational to readers. Offer links and request quotes when possible, which helps you build relationships with influential and interesting people while also further building your reputation in your niche area.  
			  »	Interviews: Contact successful individuals who can share useful knowledge about your niche topic and request to interview them. Then publish the interviews on your blog so your readers can learn from them. Again, this is a great way to build relationships with key influencers and further establish your own reputation within your niche.  
			  »	Guest blog posts: Contact others who have knowledge of your topic and ask them to write a guest blog post for you. Your readers are likely to enjoy hearing a different perspective from time to time, and it’s a great way to get a conversation going on your blog as well as put you on the radar screens of influential people and bloggers. Guest blogging is a win-win for you and the guest blogger. Not only does the guest blogger receive exposure on your blog, but you also have an opportunity to build a relationship with that person.  
	- Choosing Your voice and style
		- Whether you write a broad topic blog or a niche blog, your blog’s voice and style make it unique and set it apart from other blogs and websites. This is particularly true of niche blogs that are highly focused on a specific topic because the unique-ness of the blogger’s voice sets the blog apart in spite of the similar content from blog to blog.
		  No matter how great your content is, no one will want to read your blog if it’s written in an unappealing voice and a style that’s disconnected from the topic. I’ve stumbled across many blogs over the years that appear to offer great content, but the writing style, grammatical errors, and ineffectual voice have caused me to click away and look for an alternative source for the same kind of information. You don’t want that to happen to your blog, so take the time to determine what your voice should be on your blog and then stick to it. Also, brush up on your writing skills to ensure your content is well written. Most importantly, remember your niche, from your topic to your content to your voice and stick to it!   
		  One of the aspects of the blogosphere that makes it so easy to join is that blog-gers don’t have to be trained writers to publish a blog. This fact holds true for niche bloggers just as much as it does for broad-topic bloggers. Most blogs are written in a conversational tone rather than a strictly professional or academic tone. That’s because the blogosphere is rooted in conversations and relationships. If blog readers wanted to find an institutional, formal writing style, they would turn to textbooks and professional journals, not blogs. Even the most professional blogger can write in an informal and inviting voice that encourages conversation and relationships. The last thing you want to do on your niche blog is intimidate your readers by writing with a voice that doesn’t match your topic, and because niche blog topics are always very specific, your voice needs to be equally specific and on target with your topic.  
		  After you determine the niche topic for your blog, you need to choose the specific voice that will dominate your blog posts. By staying consistent in terms of your writing tone and style, your audience will feel comfortable visiting your blog and interacting with you, which leads to loyalty and relationships — the goal of many bloggers.  
	- Linking
		- Links are an extremely important component of any blog if you have goals to grow your blog’s readership and moneymaking potential. Following are the two primary reasons for the importance of incoming links:
			- Traffic from search engines: More incoming links (particularly from popular blogs and websites) translate into a higher ranking on search engines. Higher search engine rankings lead to more incoming traffic and higher advertising rates. Sites such as Google rank pages with more incoming links from authoritative sources (as opposed to spam sites and sites with low-quality content) higher because the automated algorithm used to find and return search results assumes pages with more incoming links are better than those without incoming links. The theory is that no one would link to an inferior page, but many will link to a great page.
			- Traffic from the links themselves: More incoming links means more potential traffic to your blog from the blogs and websites that publish those links.
		- In short, incoming links provide more entry points for people to find your blog, so writing great content that other website owners and bloggers want to link to is very important to the success of your niche blog. This is particularly important when you’re first establishing yourself online and don’t yet have the power or funds to invest in search engine optimization, advertising, and other marketing strategies. But how do you get people to link to your blog? No matter how much great content you write, no one will link to your blog if they don’t know it exists. That’s where creating content with outgoing links can be helpful to growing your blog’s audience.
		  When you write a blog post, be sure to link to your sources, provide links to addi-tional information and related content. Turn on the trackback or backlink func-tion in your blogging application (described in detail in Chapter 3 of Book 1), so other bloggers are notified via a pingback when you publish a post on your blog that links to their blog. Also, once you’ve published new content, click through each link in your blog post once to make sure they work. As your readers click those links, the website owners or bloggers that you link to will see those links within their own blog traffic statistic reports (Chapter 2 of Book 5 discusses traffic analytics), which puts you on their radar screens. This situation sets the ball in motion for you to start a relationship with those other site owners and bloggers. When they visit your blog and see the great content you publish, they may decide to use your blog as a source for their own posts, which can lead to more traffic to your blog in the future.  
		  It only takes a few seconds to provide links to sources and additional information within your blog posts. Be sure to do so, because outgoing links can lead to indi-rect blog traffic just as incoming links can lead to direct blog traffic.  
	- Finding inspiration for new content
		- »	Check Google Trends. Using Google Trends, you can find the search terms that are currently the most popular on Google. If people are searching for a term related to your niche topic, not only could it make for an interesting blog post, but you could get some of that search traffic! The process of using Google Trends is described in detail in Chapter 3 of this Book.
		  »	Check your Google Alerts. Set up a Google Alert for keywords related to your blog’s niche topic using the steps in Chapter 3 of this Book. Then check your Google Alerts messages to find the recent related content people are publishing on other websites and blogs.  
		  »	Conduct a social media search. If people are talking about your niche blog topic on social media, you might find ideas for posts there! Follow the steps in Chapter 3 of this Book to search your favorite platforms for keywords related to your niche.  
		  »	Conduct a YouTube (www.youtube.com) search. You never know what kinds of videos people are uploading to YouTube. Conduct a search on YouTube using keywords related to your niche topic and see what comes up. You just might find an interesting video that you can either embed or link to in your own blog post or that gives you inspiration for a new blog post.  
	- Branding Your Blog
		- After you have chosen your blog’s niche topic, take some time to think about your blog’s branding. In simplest terms, your blog’s brand is a representation of who you are and what you do that becomes easily recognizable to your readers and other bloggers. You can create tangible representations of your blog’s brand by creating a unique header and logo as well as a specific color scheme, font, and overall design aesthetic. Consistent visual elements can go a long way when it comes to building your online brand.
		  Although a corporate blog has a built-in brand to create a blog around, a niche blogger has to create their own brand from scratch. Don’t be intimidated. Building a brand is fun! Start by thinking of what you want your blog to represent. What will your blog’s content communicate to readers on a high level? Will your blog be serious or fun? Do you anticipate your audience will be made up primarily of men or women, teens or senior citizens, local or global readers? Consider your message and your audience members and what you want to provide to them on your blog. In other words, what can you promise your audience that they can be sure to find on your blog every time they visit? That’s your brand promise. Then choose the unique design, header, colors, and voice that best represent and communicate that brand promise to your audience and stick to it!   
		  Branding isn’t just about images. It can also be about words! Some blogs include a tagline as part of their blog name or header image. Play around and see what you come up with that’s a fit for your blog.  
		  The Hispana Global (www.hispanaglobal.net), shown in Figure  4-2, provides a great example of a well-branded blog. The colors and images are consistent throughout, which immediately sends a message that the blog is well-organized and that the blogger has given the blog time and attention. Additionally, images of blog author, Jeannette Kaplun, are easily visible in multiple locations on the blog’s landing page making it clear who is behind this beautiful blog. Right in the middle of the blog’s landing page is a brief explanation of what readers can expect: “beauty, recipes, travel & tips for busy women.” The button in the middle of the page labeled Hispana Global En Español alerts readers to the fact that this is a bilingual blog.  
		- It’s important to understand that much of successful brand-building comes less from the tangible symbols of a brand and more from the intangible elements. For example, no one cared much when Walmart changed its logo in 2009, but they would care if Walmart shifted its brand promise from low prices to something like luxury shopping. Consumers would be unlikely to accept that change because they have expectations for the Walmart brand that they have come to rely on. When Walmart consistently meets those consumer expectations, the company’s brand value grows, and consumers feel a sense of security with it. That security leads to brand loyalty, repeat business, and word-of-mouth marketing from a powerful group of consumer-brand advocates.
		  The same process holds true for your blog. Your content, your voice, your style, and your visuals should consistently communicate your brand message, image, and promise. If you fail to do so, your readers will become confused and might abandon you and your blog in lieu of another that meets their needs time and again. There are a lot of blogs out there, and even the smallest niche blog has competition within the blogosphere. Don’t let your readers get away by disap-pointing them. Remember, your blog’s brand extends beyond your blog design. It’s inherent in your content as well. Be consistent.  
		  The rule of brand consistency applies to your online activities that occur off of your blog as well. From the comments that you leave on other blogs and in forums to the guest posts that you write for other blogs, and everything in between, successful bloggers develop an online persona (or brand) that follows them everywhere they go and in everything they do. That’s how you build a powerful online brand that helps you build your online presence, establish yourself as an expert, drive traffic to your blog, and build relationships.  
		  To truly understand branding, pick up a copy of Branding For Dummies (John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 2014), by Bill Chiaravalle and Barbara Findlay Schenck, and start to familiarize yourself with the tools and techniques experts use to create powerful brands.  
	- Networking and Commenting
		- You might be surprised to find out that you can directly and indirectly find ideas for content to publish on your own blog by networking with other bloggers and commenting on their blogs, particularly blogs related to your niche topic. First, reading other blogs is one of the best ways to keep up with the online conversa-tion about your niche topic. By reaching out to the bloggers who write blogs about similar topics to your own, you can interact in a dialogue that might spark creative ideas for your own blog. It’s very possible that those other bloggers might begin sending tips to you and sharing news, opinions, and more, which can provide fur-ther content for your blog.
		  Networking is critical to niche blogging success because you’re writing about a very narrow topic and competing against much larger blogs and websites. With-out deep pockets and extensive manpower, the typical niche blogger has to rely on building relationships to grow their blogs. That’s not a bad thing. In fact, it’s probably a very good thing, because relationships can far outlast short traffic boosts that ads and promotions can deliver to larger blogs.  
		  Writing great content for your niche blog comes from your ability to write interest-ing, original content, but it also comes from networking, joining conversations, and finding out what people want from your blog and your niche topic in general. As your reputation grows in relation to your blog topic, other bloggers will turn to you for your opinions as the expert in your niche. This is another way you can find more content for your blog.  
		  Much of a blog’s success comes from the open community and the relationships built within that community among people who share each other’s content, talk about it, and drive traffic to it. Don’t underestimate the power of online relation-ships and conversations in terms of growing your blog. Instead, create content that enhances those conversations and relationships.  
		  Of course, a lot of your blog content will be related to your personal opinions, experiences, and knowledge, but it’s equally important to understand all the con-tent your potential audience is looking for related to your topic. If you want your blog to grow, your job is to deliver a balance of content that matches your needs for your blog as well as your audience’s. After all, a blog is nothing more than a one-man show if there’s no audience reading it and starting dialogues around it.  
	- creating off-blog content for your niche blog
		- As discussed earlier in this chapter, the most successful bloggers (even broad-topic bloggers) don’t hide out on their own blogs. Instead, they’re active, partici-pating members of the larger blogging community. In other words, if your goal is to become a successful blogger, you need to spend as much time participating in activities off of your blog as you do on your blog. Remember, blogging is part of the social web. Notice the word social? If you want to grow your blog, particularly a niche blog that caters to a narrower audience by definition, you need to be social.
		  A lot of the time you spend off of your blog is in participating in direct and indirect promotional activities and relationship-building efforts. Commenting on other blogs and on forums related to your blog’s niche are both off-blog activities that can help you build relationships and drive traffic to your blog. Additionally, you can pursue specific promotional efforts to grow your blog, which are discussed in detail in Book 6.  
		- Niche blogs are the perfect type of blog to grow through off-blog content — the content you create and share using other tools than your blog. Take a look at the examples in the following sections and start thinking how you can apply them to your own niche blog. Depending on your niche topic and the audience you build around it, targeted off-blog content tactics can work very well in helping you to meet your blogging goals. Be sure to read Digital Marketing All-in-One For Dummies, by Stephanie Diamond (John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 2019).
	- email campaigns
		- Many niche bloggers conduct their own publicity campaigns by creating a list of subscribers and emailing information to them as appropriate. For example, blog-gers email updates, guest post submissions, articles for republishing, interview submissions, invitations to webinars, and more in an effort to further build rela-tionships using content published outside of their blogs. If you send information that is truly useful to the people on your email list, they’re more likely to appre-ciate receiving it.
		  Try to make sure your emails are personalized. No one wants to receive mass emails from people who don’t take the time to get to know their needs and prefer-ences. That’s the technique spammers use, and bloggers call it blog blasting. You don’t want to be grouped in the same category as spammers!   
		  Think like a public relations professional and create emails that are valued by the people you send them to. The last thing you want is to look like an email spammer. If you don’t inundate your email list with messages and only send useful informa-tion, you should get positive feedback.  
	- newsletter subscriptions
		- Newsletter subscriptions
		  Similar to email campaigns, many bloggers send formal newsletters to their sub-scribed readers on a weekly, biweekly, or monthly basis. Unlike email campaigns, the format of these newsletters is typically the same from one mailing to the next. They are sent on a consistent, predictable schedule rather than on an as-needed basis.  
		  Your newsletter can include content that isn’t on your blog as well as links to content that is published on your blog. The key to creating a useful newsletter isn’t simply republishing the content that readers can already find on your blog. Including links and excerpts to that content is fine, but your newsletter content should be original and enhance the content on your blog.  
- Chapter 1 Optimizing for Search Engines
	- Understanding SEO Basics
		- Why does SEO matter? A large proportion of Internet traffic to your blog will come from search engines, which means that bloggers need to help search engines locate their blogs if they want to bring more readers to their content. Speaking of content, all of the content on your blog, from the words in your posts to the titles you give to your images, play a role in whether or not search engines include your content in their search results (as you’ll discover in this chapter).
		  When most people hear the term SEO, they tend to think of keywords, which are discussed later in this chapter. There’s actually a lot more to SEO than using tar-geted keywords that match people’s search engine queries. Although keywords are the starting point for your blog’s SEO strategy, they can only take your blog so far. You also need to focus on other SEO techniques to truly grow your blog’s search engine traffic.  
		  For example, did you know that the number of incoming links to your blog, par-ticularly incoming links from popular blogs and websites, is very important when it comes time for search engines to rank your site in comparison with similar sites for search results? In other words, your blog can stand on its own, but it will be very lonely. Boosting the number of incoming links to your blog is discussed later in this chapter in the section “Increasing your blog’s ranking in Google searches.”  
		  While it’s definitely not what people think of first when they hear the term SEO, one of the most important aspects of SEO is relationship building. Why? Because the relationships that you build with other bloggers and your audience help spread your content across the web. On the other hand, some SEO techniques can actually get you in trouble and cause your blog’s search traffic to plummet or disappear entirely. In other words, you need to avoid some SEO don’ts at all costs, unless you want to risk having your blog dropped from search results.  
		- And when it comes to SEO, you need to be flexible. Just when SEO experts think they have another aspect of Google’s proprietary search algorithm figured out, Google changes it. If you’re serious about SEO, be sure to visit sites like The Moz Blog (www.moz.org/blog/), shown in Figure 1-1, and stay abreast of the trends and tips related to SEO.
	- Finding SEO Tools
		- At this point you may be feeling a little overwhelmed. Not only do you have to write content that you love writing and that readers love reading, but now you also have to think about what search engines want to see? Take heart! There are new SEO tools and resources emerging daily, both free and with a price tag, that can help move your blog up the ranks in search engine results.
			- The Moz Blog
			- »	Search Engine Land (www.searchengineland.com)
			  »	SEO Roundtable (www.seoroundtable.com)  
			  »	Search Engine Journal (www.searchenginejournal.com)  
			  »	The Ahrefs Blog (www.ahrefs.com)  
			  »	Search Engine Journal (www.searchenginejournal.com)  
			  »	Search Engine Watch (www.searchenginewatch.com)  
			  »	Yoast Blog (www.yoast.com/seo-blog/)  
		- Plugging in for Better SEO
			- If you would like to improve the SEO of your blog but would prefer a somewhat automated path, consider utilizing WordPress plugins that are designed to help bloggers improve their standing in search engine results. Plugins, blog add-ons that provide additional functions to your blog, are available both for free and at a cost to guide you through various aspects of SEO from keyword selection to social media sharing.
			  If your blog uses the WordPress blogging software on any platform, consider checking out the following SEO plugins:  
			- »	Yoast (www.yoast.com)
			  »	All in One SEO (www.aioseo.com)  
			  »	SEOquake (www.seoquake.com)  
			  »	Schema Pro (www.wpschema.com)  
			  »	Rank Math (www.rankmath.com)  
			  »	SEO Press (www.seopress.org)  
		- Utilizing Keyword Tools
			- While you most likely are not interested in writing content solely because it will be popular in a Google search, there is value in knowing what topics potential readers are searching for often.
			  Keywords are the words that search engine users type into the search bar when looking for information online. For example, if I’m starting a new diet and I want to focus on low-fat foods that I can prepare for my family, I may search the term low-fat recipes in my search engine of choice as shown in Figure 1-2.  
			- Keyword tools assist in selecting search-friendly wording for your blog posts. If you’re hoping to lead new readers to your blog, it’s best to make sure that you include the keywords that are searched most often and are related to your post topic within your blog post. Let’s take a look at examples of keyword tools to get you started in the next section.
			  Suffering with a bad case of writer’s block? Playing around with keyword tools can help you come up with ideas for new posts!  
	- Interpreting Keywords
		- Doing Keyword Research
			- The first step to using keywords to boost your blog’s traffic from search engines is to find the best keywords to include in your content. That means you need to do keyword research using tools such as the following, which are just a small sam-pling of what is available:
			- »	Keyword Tool (www.keywordtool.io)
			  »	Google Trends (trends.google.com)  
			  »	KWFinder (www.kwfinder.com)  
			  »	SpyFu (www.spyfu.com)  
			  »	Serpstat (www.serpstat.com)  
			  »	LongTailPro (www.longtailpro.com)  
			  »	Google Keyword Planner (ads.google.com/keywordplanner)  
			  »	Ahrefs Keywords Explorer (ahrefs.com/keywords-explorer)  
			  »	Semrush (www.semrush.com)  
			  »	AnswerThePublic (www.answerthepublic.com)  
			- The goal for keyword research is to find keywords to target in your posts that are relevant to your blog’s topic and neither too popular (because there’s too much competition from powerful sites for those keywords) nor too unpopular (because there’s no sense in focusing on keywords that no one is searching for).
		- Exploring keyword search tools
			- www.keywordtool.io
			- There are strategic places to use your keywords, discussed later in this chapter in “Writing SEO-Friendly Blog Posts,” including the following:
			- »	Post titles
			  »	Headings within posts  
			  »	Near the beginning of your post’s content  
			  »	Within and near hyperlinks  
			- Placing your selected keywords carefully helps ensure that they’re given more weight in search engine algorithms (formulas that determine how useful a search result is in relation to the search term) and that your content is ranked appropri-ately because of them. You can boost your search engine rank for targeted key-words by following these tips:
			- »	Do not use too many keywords in one post or page. A good guideline is to focus each blog post that you write on three to four keywords or keyword phrases.
			  »	Choose keyword phrases that are short. Statistics show that nearly  
			  60 percent of keyword searches include just two or three keywords. That’s where you want your keywords to be!  
			  »	Be specific. This applies to the concept of going after the long tail, which is discussed in detail in the next section of this chapter.  
			- Although these are broad keyword tips that you can use to boost your search engine traffic to your blog, you can use many more techniques within your blog writing to enhance your SEO. You can find out more on that subject later in this chapter, in the section “Writing SEO-Friendly Blog Posts,” but first, let’s look at long-tail SEO.
		- Demystifying Long Tail SEO
			- Long-tail SEO is a hot topic in the online world as the landscape gets more and more cluttered and the competition for keyword traffic grows exponentially every day. A small blog has little chance of competing with top sites for broad and popu-lar keyword traffic. Imagine you’re starting a blog about travel, and then imagine how many other sites are competing for broad, related keywords such as travel or vacations. There’s little hope for your new blog to appear high in search engine rankings for those broad terms. However, you can target very specific keyword phrases, called long-tail SEO, and attract very targeted traffic to your blog with far less competition.
			  Long-tail SEO is the process of targeting very specific keyword phrases that are too narrow for big websites to feel threatened by but broad enough to get a decent amount of searches on them each day. For example, rather than targeting a broad term such as travel, you could target a more specific keyword phrase such as singles resorts. This is where keyword research can be extremely useful.  
			- As discussed in Book 2, niche bloggers often find great success going after the long tail. It makes sense. These bloggers focus on attracting visitors who are look-ing for specific information, and niche bloggers make sure they deliver that infor-mation. Ultimately, that’s the key to long-tail SEO success, to attract readers to your blog using less-popular keywords and then satisfy visitors when they get there by writing content that’s relevant and useful to them.
		- Writing SEO Friendly Blog Posts
			- Locating and selecting the right keywords for your content is only the first step to writing SEO-friendly blog posts. You then need to understand how to use those keywords in your writing so they actually help your search rankings. Let’s take a closer look at the commonly accepted techniques (mentioned previously in this chapter) to use to ensure search engines find your keywords and rank your con-tent accordingly:
			- »	Use keywords in your post titles. Make sure your keywords are included in your blog post’s title. Bloggers who are serious about SEO fight the urge to write cute and catchy titles and instead focus on writing post titles that utilize targeted keywords. The best blog post titles both draw the reader and the search engines in.
			  »	Use keywords in your subtitles and post headings. Include a subtitle with your blog post or break your post into sections with a heading for each section. Use the HTML headings attributes, H1, H2, H3, and so on to format your subtitle and headings.  
			  »	Use keywords at the beginning and end of your post content. Use the same keyword at least two times within the first 100 words or so of your blog post as well as at the end of your blog post.  
			  »	Use keywords in and around links in your posts. If possible, make your keywords link to another page or post on your blog or include your keywords around links within your post.  
			  Make sure the keyword links you use in your blog post are relevant, or they can do more harm than good. Google might view them as spam if they’re abundant and aren’t relevant to your post content.  
			  »	Use keywords to name your images and in ALT tags. If possible, name the images used in your post with your keywords and include them in the ALT tag of your image’s HTML code. However, make sure it’s relevant to do so, or Google might view your efforts as keyword stuffing, which is a form of spam discussed later in this chapter in the section “Avoiding SEO Don’ts.”  
		- Building Relationships to Boost Search Rankings
			- Perhaps the most critical step to boosting the search engine traffic to your blog is the time you spend building relationships with other bloggers and your blog’s readers, because that’s how you can increase the number of links to your blog con-tent. Search engines, such as Google, highly value incoming links (particularly links from popular and authoritative sites) in determining how to rank search results. The more time you spend cultivating relationships online, the more your search rankings will rise organically.
			  Following are some relationship-building tips that can help your SEO efforts:  
			- »	Leave comments on other blogs. Start reading blogs written about subjects similar to your blog and then leave useful comments on posts you enjoy. Commenting is the first step to building a relationship with another blogger and that blogger’s existing audience.
			  »	Use the same link phrase everywhere. When you leave comments on other blogs, always use the same phrase for the link back to your blog. This not only helps your branding efforts so that people begin to recognize you, but it also helps with search engine optimization.  
			  »	Link to content you enjoy from your own blog posts. When you read something you like on another blog, mention it on your own blog and provide a link to the source. Your link shows up as an incoming link for the other blogger, and your own audience is likely to be happy to read more great content that you recommend. Just be sure that you don’t copy content from another source verbatim. You don’t want to be accused of plagiarism or scraping content, which is described in more detail in the “Avoiding SEO Don’ts” section later in this chapter.  
			- hare content you like on social media platforms. Use social media tools to share links to content you enjoy, thereby driving traffic to other blog posts that you like. It’s possible someone will reciprocate and share your content, too.
			  »	Respond to comments left on your blog. Don’t ignore the people who take the time to leave comments on your blog posts. Instead, make them feel valued by writing a meaningful response to their comments.  
			- These are just a few tips to start building relationships across the blogosphere, which should help your blog’s traffic and search rankings over time. Remember, the relationships you build are likely to outlast any search engine algorithms, so make sure you take the time to cultivate them.
		- Understanding Google Search Results
			- In simplest terms, Google’s search algorithm indexes online content and ranks it in terms of relevancy, usefulness, and authoritativeness. Relevancy is primarily determined contextually and relies heavily on keywords, whereas usefulness and authoritativeness rely more heavily on incoming links.
			  Google ranks sites and blogs with a lot of incoming links higher than those with few incoming links. The thought process is that sites with a lot of incoming links must have great content on them or other sites wouldn’t want to link to them. Furthermore, sites that are updated frequently with a lot of fresh content have more chances to attract incoming links, driving their Google rank up higher.  
			  It’s important to understand that Google claims not to use the page ranking sys-tem in determining how search results are delivered, but the process behind the system is still valid. In other words, the steps that people took to increase what used to be referred to as a Google PageRank are still effective in terms of increas-ing the ranking of your posts and pages within relevant Google searches, regard-less of whether the official Google PageRank system is still in effect.  
		- Avoiding SEO Don'ts
			- Just as there are steps you can follow to increase your blog’s search traffic by appropriately using keywords, links, and techniques to boost your blog’s rank-ing in online searches, there are also things you can do that ultimately hurt your blog’s search engine rankings. In fact, there are even things you can do that can get your blog eliminated from Google search entirely!
			- If you want to grow your blog’s readership, don’t do any of the things in the fol-lowing list:
				- »	Don’t pay for text links. Google views text link advertising as a way to artificially boost search engine rankings. If you’re caught paying for text links to your blog, your search rankings could drop or your blog could be removed from Google search results entirely.
				  »	Don’t publish links that have been paid for. Google punishes both the site that pays for text links and the site that publishes paid text links in the same way — by dropping both sites’ search rankings or dropping both sites from search results completely.  
				  »	Don’t keyword stuff. Keyword stuffing is the process of overloading a webpage with keywords for the sole purpose of increasing search engine rankings. For example, you might find a long list of keywords at the top or bottom of a webpage. They may or may not be set up as links. Use your keywords strategically as suggested earlier in this chapter.  
				  »	Don’t hide keywords. Don’t try to hide keywords in a very small font or a color that matches your blog’s background. Google looks for sites that do this and considers them to be spam, which means reduced or no search traffic for sites that are caught hiding keywords.  
				  »	Don’t scrape content. Never copy content from another site and republish it as your own on your own blog — called scraping content. Although it’s okay to copy a quote or small section of content from another site, you should never plagiarize content and republish it on your site. First, to do so without permission is illegal. Second, Google gives credit only to the first site that publishes that content and might penalize sites that are found copying content, regardless of whether you link to the original source.  
				  »	Don’t publish content that is nothing more than links. Your blog must contain far more original content than links. Google views pages that include little more than links as spam. Your blog will be downgraded if you’re caught publishing pages full of links, particularly if those links are ads.  
	- Considering Search Engine Reputation Management
		- Search engine reputation management (SERM) is the process of making sure the search engine results for keywords related to yourself, your blog, your business, your brand, and so on are the ones that you want people to see. For example, you wouldn’t want someone to type your name or the keyword phrase related to your blog into Google and find that the top results returned provide negative informa-tion about you. That’s where SERM comes in handy: You can directly affect the search results that people find with time and commitment.
		  First, you need to stay on top of what people find when they search for the key-words related to your blog so you always know where you stand. Conduct regular searches on your chosen keywords and keep track of the results. The more qual-ity content you flood the online world with that’s optimized for your keyword phrases, the farther down other content will fall in search result listings. You can also sign up to receive email alerts using Google Alerts (www.google.com/alerts) whenever your chosen keywords are mentioned online.  
		  Furthermore, the relationships that you build online can help your SERM efforts because the other bloggers that you have relationships with are typically happy to help you get new content online that tells the story you want to share.  
		  Ultimately, the key to SEO success comes from two things: a lot of great, original content and relationships. You can find out more about SERM in Chapter  5 of Book 3.  
	- # p.441
