Please format for legibility in markdown. It is a glossary/vocabulary list Gathering Information 

---

-- See Learning Goal (Overall Storyline) -- [Type] -- the central objective of a story -- A Goal is that which the Protagonist of a story hopes to achieve. As such, it need not be an object. The Goal might be a state of mind or enlightenment; a feeling or attitude, a degree or kind of knowledge, desire or ability. Although it is his chief concern, the Goal which a Protagonist seeks is not necessarily a good thing for him nor is it certainly attainable. Only through the course of the story does the value and accessibility of the Goal clarify. Dramatica points out the nature of Goal that is consistent with an Author's dramatic choices, but it remains for the Author to illustrate that nature. For any given category of Goal, an unlimited number of examples might be created. Good -- [Plot Dynamic] -- If at the end of the story the Main Character is no longer nagged by his personal problems, the judgment of the story can be said to be Good -- The Main Character ultimately succeeds in resolving his personal problems -- Even though the effort to achieve the story's goal may result in success, this is not necessarily a good thing for the Main Character. In fact, success might be obtained in the Overall Story even though the Main Character fails to resolve his personal problems. Similarly, the effort to achieve the story goal might end in failure yet the Main Character ends up overcoming his personal problems. Regardless of whether the Overall Story ends in Success or Failure, if the Main Character succeeds in resolving his personal problems the outcome is deemed Good. Grand Argument Story -- [Dramatica Term] -- A story that illustrates all four throughlines (Overall Story, Subjective Story, Main Character, and Impact Character) in their every appreciation so that no holes are left in either the passionate or dispassionate arguments of that story -- A Grand Argument Story covers all the bases so that it cannot be disproven because, from the perspective that it creates, it is right. There are four views in a complete story which look at all the possible ways the story could be resolved from all the possible perspectives allowed; these are represented by the perspectives created by matching the four Throughlines with the four Classes—(the Overall Story, Subjective Story, Main Character, and Impact Character Throughlines matched up with the Classes of Situation (Universe), Activity (Physics), Manipulation (Psychology), and Fixed Attitude (Mind) to create the four perspectives of the particular story they are operating in). Every complete storyform explores each of these perspectives entirely so that their view of the story's problem is consistent and that they arrive at the only solution that could possibly work, allowing the givens built into the story from the start. When this is done, a Grand Argument has been made and there is no disproving it on its own terms. You may disagree that the things it takes for givens really are givens, but as an argument it has no holes. Growth -- [Character Dynamic] -- The way a character grows in his attempt to solve his problems, toward either "Start" or "Stop" -Change Characters see their problems as being inside themselves. Steadfast Characters see their problems as being outside themselves. Sometimes a problem is created by too much of something, other times by too little. Growth describes whether a problem is "too much" of something, or "too little." It appears differently depending on if the Main Character Changes or Remains Steadfast. If a character must change, he has one of these two kinds of problems. Either he is bullheaded in sticking with an inappropriate approach or he simply doesn't use an approach that would be appropriate. In the "too much" scenario, the character comes off as aggressively obstinate. In the "too little" scenario the character comes off as stubbornly ignorant. The "too much" Change Character needs to "stop." The "too little" Change Character needs to "start." If the Main Character remains Steadfast, though, then the kinds of problems they'll face will involve either holding out for something to Start or holding out for something to Stop. Metaphorically, the Steadfast Character is either a storm trying to weather away an island, or an island trying to hold out against a storm. Both Change and Steadfast Characters' Growth can be called "Start" or "Stop." Guardian -- [Archetype] -- An archetype that represents the motivations of Conscience and Help -- This Archetypal character acts as teacher/helper to the Protagonist. As Conscience, he provides the audience with the story's assessment of what is good and bad in the world it describes. In his Dynamic Pair relationship, the Guardian counterbalances the efforts of the Contagonist to hinder progress and tempt the Protagonist from the proper path. Since, according to Archetypal convention, the Protagonist must ultimately face the Antagonist without assistance, both the Guardian and Contagonist must be dramatically nullified before the climax of the story so that they cannot interfere. This often occurs as a separate confrontation between them, just prior to the Protagonist meeting the Antagonist, or it may occur concurrently, but concludes before the actual climax of the story is reached. Help -- [Element] -- dyn.pr. Hinder<—> Help -- a direct assistance to another's effort to achieve their goal -- The Help characteristic assists another's efforts. This can be a real boon to someone struggling to achieve. Sometimes, however, someone doesn't want any help. He either wants to do it on his own or what he is trying to do has been misread by the character representing the Help characteristic who is actually hindering him. Did you hear the one about the Boy Scout who helped the little old lady across the street and then she bashed him with her handbag because she had been waiting for a bus? -- syn. aid, assist, support, bolster, abet Hinder -- [Element] -- dyn.pr. Hinder<—>Help -- a direct detraction from another's effort to achieve their goal -- The Hinder characteristic strives to undermine another's efforts. This might be seen as a negative, as it often is. But sometimes a character functions to hinder an "evil" character, disrupting his plans. Hinder merely indicates the effect on the plans not whether that is a good or bad thing. -- syn. retard, obstruct, impede, fetter, undermine, block, burden, encumber, thwart Hope -- [Variation] -- dyn.pr. Dream<—>Hope -- a desired future if things go as expected -- Hope is based on a projection of the way things are going. When one looks at the present situation and notes the direction of change, Hope lies somewhere along that line. As an example, if one is preparing for a picnic and the weather has been sunny, one Hopes for a sunny day. If it was raining for days, one could not Hope but only Dream. Still, Hope acknowledge that things can change in unexpected ways. That means that Hoping for something is not the same as expecting something. Hope is just the expectation that something will occur unless something interferes. How accurately a character evaluates the potential for change determines whether he is Hoping or dreaming. When a character is dreaming and thinks he is Hoping, he prepares for things where there is no indication they will come true. -- syn. desired expectation, optimistic anticipation, confident aspiration, promise, encouraging outlook How Things Are Changing -- See Progress Hunch -- [Element] -- dyn.pr. Theory<—>Hunch -a conclusion based on intuition -- A Hunch is an understanding arrived at by circumstantial evidence. The phrase "where there's smoke, there's fire" describes the concept. The advantage is that when evidence mounts, even without direct connections, one may draw an analogy that has a substantial likelihood of being correct as in "I've seen that pattern before!" Of course, a Hunch is merely a suspicion. The danger is acting upon it as if it were fact. -- syn. intuition, premonition, impression, suspicion

---


Judgment -- [Plot Dynamic] -- The author's assessment of whether or not the Main Character has resolved his personal problem -- The notion that the good guys win and the bad guys lose is not always true. In stories, as in life, we often see very bad people doing very well for themselves (if not for others). And even more often we see very good people striking out. If we only judged things by success and failure, it wouldn't matter if the outcome was good or bad as long as it was accomplished. The choice of Good or Bad places the author's moralistic judgment on the value of the Main Character's success or failure in resolving his personal problems. It is an opportunity not only to address good guys that win and bad guys that fail, as well as good guys that fail and the bad guys that win, but to comment on the success or failure of their growth as human beings. Justification -- The complex hierarchy of experience and expectation that helps one reconcile exceptions to personally held truths while maintaining our position on those personally held truths -- All understanding comes from determining connections between processes and results, causes and effects. All anticipation comes from accepting these connections as unchanging and absolute. In this manner we are able to respond to new situations based on our experience and to plan for the future based on our expectations. But our knowledge of our world and ourselves is incomplete. We are constantly learning and redefining our understanding and our anticipation. Sometimes we have built up such a complex hierarchy of experience and expectation that it becomes easier (more efficient) to formulate or accept what might seem an unlikely and complex explanation than to redefine the entire base of our knowledge. After all, the enormity of our experience carries a lot of weight compared to a single incident that does not conform to our conclusions. Unfortunately, once conflicting information is explained away by presupposing an unseen force it is not integrated into the base of our experience and nothing has been learned from it. The new and potentially valuable information has bounced off the mental process of Justification, having no impact and leaving no mark. This is how preconceptions, prejudices, and blind spots are created. It is also how we learn, for only by accepting some things as givens can we build complex understandings on those foundations. Justification also creates the motivation to change things rather than accept them, but in so doing also creates a blind spot that keeps us from seeing a solution in ourselves in situations where it would be better to accept. Because we cannot know if a point of view should be held onto or given up and reexamined, we have no way of being certain that we are approaching a problem correctly. But either way, we will not question our Justification, only the propriety of applying it to a particular instance. In the case of a Main Character who must remain steadfast, he needs to hold onto his Justifications long enough to succeed with them. But in the case of a Main Character who must change, he needs to give up his Justifications and reexamine his basic understanding. Stories explore the relationship of the inequity between the way things are and the way the Main Character sees them or would have them be. Then it can be evaluated by the audience as to whether or not the decision to remain steadfast or change was the proper one. So Justification is neither good nor bad. It simply describes a mind set that holds personal experience as absolute knowledge, which is sometimes just what is needed to solve the problem and other times is actually the cause of the problem. Knowledge -- Most terms in Dramatica are unique, however four items have two uses, serving both as Variation and Element. This is a result of the fundamental importance of the concepts represented by these four items: Thought, Knowledge, Ability, and Desire. [Variation] -- dyn.pr. Thought<>Knowledge -- that which one holds to be true - Knowledge is something a character holds to be true. That does not necessarily mean it IS true but just that the character believes it is. The gulf between what is known and what is true can create enormous misconceptions and inaccurate evaluations. -- syn. held truth, maintained information, presumed facts, accepted ideas [Element] -- dyn.pr. Thought<>Knowledge -- that which one holds to be true - The Knowledge characteristic urges a character to rely on what is held to be true. The Character representing Knowledge will tap the resources of its information to find parallels and understanding that he can apply to the issue at hand. The advantage of Knowledge is that one need not learn what is already known, thereby skipping non-essential re-evaluations and getting a head start with solving a problem. The difficulty is that Knowledge can be wrong. Without re-evaluation dogma sets in — rigor mortis of thought, leading to inflexibility and closed minded-ness because the Character believes no re-consideration is needed since the subject is already "known." -- syn. learnedness, held truths, authoritative certainty, generally agreed upon truths Leap of Faith -- Having run out of time or options and come to the moment of truth, the Main Character decides to either Change or remain Steadfast with no way of knowing which will best lead him to his goal or resolve his personal problem -- No Main Character can be sure that he will succeed until the story has completely unfolded. Up until that moment, there is always the opportunity to change one's approach or one's attitude. For example, a Main Character may determine that what he thought was the true source of the problem really is not. Or he may reconsider his motivation to try and resolve it; whether he should give up or try harder. Again, there is no way for him to tell with certainty which path will lead to success. Nevertheless, when these scenarios close in on a single moment in the story, the moment of truth, where the Main Character has their last opportunity to remain steadfast in their approach and attitude or to change either or both, there will be a Leap of Faith. After that, all that remains is to see it to its conclusion, good or bad. That moment of truth is called the Leap of Faith because the Main Character must choose a course and then commit himself to it, stepping into the unknown with blind faith in a favorable outcome or resignation to an ostensibly poor one. Learning -- [Type] -- dyn.pr. Understanding<>Learning -- gathering information or experience -- Learning describes the process of acquiring knowledge. It is not the knowledge itself. When a portion of a story focuses on learning, it is the gathering of an education that is of concern, not the education that ultimately has been gathered. Learning need not be an academic endeavor. One might learn to express one's feelings or learn about love. Learning does not even require new information as sometimes one learns simply by looking through old information from a different perspective or with a new approach. It is not important if one is learning to arrive at a particular understanding or just to gather data. As long as the focus is on the process of gaining information, Learning is the operative word. -- syn. cultivating experience, acquiring information, collecting data, gathering knowledge Level -- [Structural Term] -- The relationship between families (Elements, Variations, Types and Throughlines) of dramatic units is similar to turning up the power on a microscope: each has a different resolution with which to examine the story's problem. Throughlines take the broadest view. Types are more detailed. Variations are even more refined and Elements provide the greatest detail available in a story. Each of the families, therefore, represents a different level of resolution or simply a different Level. Limit -- [Plot Dynamic] -- The restricted amount of time or options that, by running out, forces the story to a climax -- The Limit is what forces the story to a close. One of the functions of a story is to give the audience the value of experiences it has not had itself by living through the Main Character. As such, the Main Character in the story Changes or Remains Steadfast and hopes for the best, and we learn from his accomplishments or disappointments. Yet, even a Main Character would not jump into the void and commit to a course of action or decision unless forced into it. To force the Main Character to decide, the story provides all the necessary information to make an educated guess while progressively closing in on the Main Character until he has no alternative but to choose. This closing in can be accomplished in either of two ways: either running out of places to look for the solution or running out of time to work one out. Running out of options is accomplished by an Optionlock; a deadline is accomplished by a Timelock. Both of these means of limiting the story and forcing the Main Character to decide are felt from early on in the story and get stronger until the climax. Optionlocks need not be claustrophobic so much as they only provide limited pieces with which to solve the problem. Timelocks need not be hurried so much as limiting the interval during which something can happen.  Once an established Limit is reached, however, the story must end and assessments be made: is the Outcome Success or Failure? is the Judgment Good or Bad? is the Main Character Resolve Change or Steadfast? etc. Logic -- [Element] -- dyn.pr. Feeling<—>Logic -- a rational sense of how things are related -Logic is the mental process of choosing the most efficient course or explanation based on reason. The Logic characteristic exemplifies the theory behind "Occam's Razor," that the simplest explanation is the correct explanation. Therefore, the Logic characteristic is very efficient but has no understanding or tolerance that people do not live by reason alone. As a result, the character with the Logic characteristic often ignores how other's "unreasonable" feelings may cause a very real backlash to his approach. -- syn. linear reasoning, rationality, structural sensibility, syllogistics Logical -- See Male Mental Sex

---

Please format for legibility in markdown. It is a glossary/vocabulary list

Impact Character -- [Subjective Character] -- The Subjective Character that forces the Main Character to face his personal problem -Every Main Character has a single Impact Character that forces him to face his personal problems. From the Main Character's point of view, the Impact Character may seem to be blocking the road to the solution of the Main Character's personal problem, or he may seem to be trying to knock the Main Character off the road to the solution. In a more objective view, the Impact Character functions to block the Main Character from sweeping his personal problem under the carpet, forcing the Main Character to address it directly. In every act, a story problem is introduced that requires the Main Character to expose his personal problem in order to solve the story problem. It is the Impact Character that creates the most personal tension for the Main Character. Frequently, the Main Character is chosen by the author to be the Protagonist as well, and often the Impact Character function is combined with the Guardian or the Contagonist. In this way, they each do double duty as prime movers of both the objective and subjective concerns of the story. This arrangement is not essential, however, and in many cases it is prudent to assign the Main and Impact Character roles to characters other than the Protagonist and Guardian/Contagonist in order to clearly explore the relationship between the Overall Story and Subjective problems of the story. Impact Character's Concern -- [Type] -- The area of the Impact Character's cares, interests, or goals -- The Impact Character will be interested in achieving some degree of growth or control over things described by this appreciation. This could be in terms of concrete or abstract things, depending partly on the Impact Character's Throughline and partly on the twist the author wants to put on that Throughline. Impact Character's Critical Flaw -- [Variation] -The item that undermines the Impact Character's efforts -- The Impact Character's Critical Flaw undermines his effectiveness against the Main Character in general, but especially in regards to his Unique Ability. The Impact Character in any story has a Unique Ability which makes him uniquely qualified to thwart the Main Character. But in his character as well is a Critical Flaw which prevents him from just totally overwhelming the Main Character. This is again a trait which is unique to this particular character. Impact Character's Direction -- [Element] -- The direction of the Impact Character's efforts -- An Impact Character can never be sure if what he believes to be the source of his problem really is the source of his problem. Regardless, based on his way of seeing things, he will determine a potential solution or Direction in which he hopes to find the solution. The dramatic unit that describes what a Subjective Character believes is the path to a solution is his Direction. Impact Character's Throughline -- [Throughline] - The broadest description of the Impact Character's impact in a specific story -- Everything that emanates from what the Impact Character does and represents which primarily relates to his impact alone, as opposed to specific relationships he has with other characters, can be said to be part of the Impact Character Throughline. There are four different Throughlines in the structure of any story, represented by the combination of each of the four Classes with each of the four throughlines— the Overall Story Throughline, the Subjective Story Throughline, the Main Character Throughline, and the Impact Character Throughline. The Impact Character Throughline describes, in the broadest single term, what the Impact Character represents and the area in which the Impact Character operates within the story. Impact Character's Focus -- [Element] -- Where the Impact Character's attention is most directed -- The Impact Character concentrates his attention where he thinks his problem lies. Just as in the Main Character, an inequity exists in the Impact Character between himself and his environment which is driving him. The actual nature of this inequity is described by the Impact Character Problem Element. The nature of what is required to restore balance is described by the Impact Character Solution Element. From the Subjective view afforded to the Impact Character though, the inequity does not appear to be between himself and the Environment but wholly in one or the other. The Focus Element describes the nature of how the problem appears to the Impact Character from his Subjective point of view. Focus really describes the effects of the Impact Character Problem element, but because the Problem element is on the level of his own motivations, Subjective Characters can never see his actual problems without solving them. Impact Character's Problem -- [Element] -- The source of the Impact Character's drive -- In every Impact Character there exists some inequity that is driving him. If the Impact Character Changes something in himself in response to the Main Character's Steadfastness, it is this item, his Problem, which he changes by exchanging it for his Solution. If the Impact Character is Steadfast, though, then he holds onto his problem, deepening his resolve to keep the same motivations at the end of the story as he had when he began the story. Impact Character's Issue -- [Variation] -- the nature of The Impact Character's efforts -- An Impact Character's Issue captures the essence of what that character will represent in the story. The nature of the things he does, intends to do, and effectively means to the passionate argument of the story are all linked in this appreciation. Impact Character's Solution -- [Element] -- what is needed to truly satisfy The Impact Character's motivation -- The Solution Element is the "flip side" of the Problem Element. For the Impact Character, it is the element that would alleviate the Impact Character's drive which his Problem Element supplies. It is not necessarily applied during a story, but it exists in every story nevertheless. Impact Character's Benchmark -- [Type] -- The standard against which the Impact Character's concern is measured -- The way of telling how much the Impact Character is dealing with the issues at stake for him in the story is by choosing an item in the story and using it as a measuring stick. This can be subtle or obvious, illustrated perhaps by the number of empty beer cans next to an alcoholic's bed, the severity of a facial tick, or the amount of perfume a character puts on. However it is illustrated, it needs to be there to give both the audience and the Impact Character some way of judging how deep his concern is and how far along in the story he is. Impact Character's Unique Ability -- [Variation] -The item that makes the Impact Character uniquely able to thwart the Main Character -The reason the Impact Character is able to carry half of the Subjective Story is his unique suitability to take the opposite position to the Main Character on the Crucial Element of the story. The Impact Character Unique Ability gives the Impact Character a power which no one else in the story has to be able to affect the Main Character. The nature of this power is what is described by this appreciation. Impulsive Responses [Preconscious] -- [Type] - dyn.pr. Innermost Desires [Subconscious]<>Impulsive Responses [Preconscious] -immediate responses -- Built into the mind is an instinctual base of reactions and attitudes that cannot be altered but merely compensated for. When a story's problem revolves around the unsuitability of someone's essential nature to a given situation or environment, the central issue is the Impuslive Responses. The solution lies in the character conditioning himself to either hold his tendencies in check or develop methods of enhancing areas in which he is naturally weak in reason, ability, emotion, or intellect. -- syn. unthinking responses, immediate responses, impulse, impulsive response, instinctive response, innate response, reflex Inaction -- [Element] -- dyn.pr. Protection<>Inaction -- taking no action as a means of response -- Inaction does not mean simply sitting still. The Inactive characteristic might choose to allow a course of action by not interfering. Or it might refuse to move out of harm's way, thereby forming a resistance to the progress that drives the harm. Both of these are efficient tools for altering the course of an interaction. However, the Inactive characteristic may also drag its feet in all areas and form a resistance to both good and bad things so that its influence simply hinders everything but changes nothing. -- syn. passive reaction, inactive response, achieve through not doing Induction -- [Element] -- dyn.pr. Deduction<>Induction -- a means of determining possibility -- Induction is the process of thought that determines where an unbroken line of causal relationships leads. The purpose is to see if it is possible that something connects to something else. The character containing the Inductive characteristic has an advantage in taking seemingly unrelated facts and putting them in an order that establishes a potential causal relationship. This allows him to arrive at conclusions that "limit in" something as a possibility. The drawback is that the conclusion only illustrates one possibility out of an unknown number of possibilities. Unlike deduction, Induction does not rule out competing theories until only one remains. Rather, Induction simply determines that a particular theory is not ruled out. Problems occur when it is assumed that simply because a causal relationship might exist that it does exist. This leads to blaming and holding responsible both people and situations that were not actually the real cause. Only if all possible Inductions are compared can the likelihood of any single one be determined -- syn. postulate, predicate, conjecture, infer, hypothesize, determine possibility Inequity -- [Element] -- dyn.pr. Equity<—>Inequity -- an unbalance, unfairness, or lack or stability -- When a character focuses on Inequity he is evaluating in terms of what is wrong or unfair with a situation. No matter how much is working right or how much is good, it is the part that is out of balance that occupies his attention. A character with this trait will spot trouble before anyone else, but he will also never be satisfied unless absolutely everything is worked out -- syn. imbalance, unfair, disparity, unequal, uneven, disproportionate Inertia -- [Element] -- dyn.pr. Change<—>Inertia - a continuation of a state or process -- Inertia is a tendency to maintain the status quo. That which is moving wants to keep moving. That which is at rest wants to stay at rest. An Inertia-oriented character concerns himself with keeping things on an even keel. He tries to avoid or prevent anything that rocks the boat. He also does not adapt well to change. - syn. tendency to continue, a change resistant pattern, continuation, following an established direction Innermost Desires [Subconscious] --[Type] --dyn.pr. Impulsive Responses [Preconscious]<—>Innermost Desires [Subconscious] -- basic drives and desires -- Innermost Desires [Subconscious] describes the essential feelings that form the foundation of character. These feelings are so basic that a character is often not aware of what they truly are. When the Innermost Desires [Subconscious] is involved, a character is moved right to the fiber of his being. -- syn. libido, id, basic motivations, basic drives, anima Instinct -- [Variation] -- dyn.pr. Conditioning<>Instinct -- intrinsic unconditioned responses -Instinct describes those built- in responses to situations and circumstances that are not learned, yet drive one to comply with their urges. How much sway they have over an individual depends both upon the nature of the instinct and the intensity of conditioning against the instinct that he has experienced by accident, design, or choice. When one acts or responds according to instinct, there is no conscious consideration beforehand. Only after the fact does the consciousness become aware that an instinct has been triggered. Nonetheless, one can learn to inhibit instinctual commands until the consciousness has the opportunity to consider the propriety of conforming to it. -- syn. involuntary drive, innate impulse, unconditioned response, automatic response, unconditioned motivation Interdiction -- [Variation] -- dyn.pr. Prediction<>Interdiction -- an effort to change a predetermined course -- Interdiction is the effort to change the course of one's destiny. Once a character determines that his destiny is pulling him toward an undesirable fate, he tries to Interdict and thereby avoid the fate. But has he correctly identified the course of his destiny or in actuality is what he sees as Interdiction is just another pre-destined step toward his fate? -- syn. altering the future, interfering with the predetermined, hindering the inevitable, escaping the predestined Interpretation -- [Variation] -- dyn.pr. Senses<>Interpretation -- determination of possible meaning -- Once an observation is made, its meaning must be Interpreted by the mind. Even if seen exactly as it happened, the forces or intents behind what is seen are often misconstrued. Stories revolving around eye witness accounts frequently employ Interpretation (and its Dynamic Partner, Senses) to great dramatic advantage -- syn. construe, rendition, rendering meaning, elucidate, translating meaning Intuitive -- See Female Mental Sex Inverse -- [Structural Term] -- Anytime a pair of items is being considered, each item in the pair is referred to as the INVERSE of the other Investigation -- [Variation] -- dyn.pr. Doubt<>Investigation -- gathering evidence to resolve questions of validity -- Investigation is a proactive word for it describes a character who makes an effort to seek out evidence. Obviously this usually tends to bring one closer to a conclusion sooner than without the effort. But Investigation can cause trouble since the character must pre-determine where to look. This leads to a meandering path through the evidence that may miss whole pockets of essential information. Sometimes a single missed piece can flip the entire conclusion 180 degrees. So Investigating to one's satisfaction depends on random success and the limits of one's tenacity, not necessarily on learning what the whole picture is. -- syn. inquiry, research, probe, sleuthing, delving, query Issue -- [Variation] -- The thematic meaning of the Throughline being explored -- Each of the four Throughlines: Overall Story, Subjective Story, Main Character, and Impact Character, have a thematic nature which is described by its Issue. The Overall Story Issue, for example, describes the nature of the Overall Story Characters' efforts in that story. Whatever kinds of things are done by the Overall Story Characters in relation to the Story Goal can be said to be linked thematically by this particular item. Item -- [Structural Term] -- Sometimes it becomes convenient to group a number of units of similar nature together and treat the group as if it were a single unit itself. When units are grouped together in this manner the larger entity is referred to as an item.

---
p305
Main Character