> # THE MAIN CHARACTER FLAW BRAINSTORM
> First, determine the flaw of your character. Then, discover his story by asking the following questions:
> 1. Keeping your main character's flaw in mind, what's the WORST SITUATION he could find himself in? ==...==
> 2. What is the FIRST ACTION your MC would take? ==...==
> 3. How might that action BACKFIRE? ==...==
> 4. Who is the LEAST LIKELY PERSON who might help the MC or team up with him? ==...==
> 5. What NEW ACTION might the person push the MC to take? ==...==
> 6. Who or what might GET IN THE WAY of this new activity?==...==
> 7. How might the flaw of the MC turn into a SKILL? ==...==
> 8. What SURPRISING FINAL ACTION could be taken that is the least-likely thing your character would have originally done? ==...==
> 
> **The first step to discovering character flaw is to reference the character flaw methods sheet and to choose a method which best serves the story. Once chosen, return here.**



# YOUR TURN
## THE MAIN CHARACTER FLAW BRAINSTORM
First, determine the flaw of your character. Then, discover his story by asking the following questions:

	1 Keeping your main character's flaw in mind, what's the WORST SITUATION he could find himself in?
==...==
	2 What is the FIRST ACTION your MC would take?
==...==
	3 How might that action BACKFIRE?
==...==
	4 Who is the LEAST LIKELY PERSON who might help the MC or team up with him?
==...==
	5 What NEW ACTION might the person push the MC to take?
==...==
	6 Who or what might GET IN THE WAY of this new activity?
==...==
	7 How might the flaw of the MC turn into a SKILL?
==...==
	8 What SURPRISING FINAL ACTION could be taken that is the least-likely thing your character would have originally done? 
==...==

*The first step to discovering character flaw is to reference the character flaw methods sheet and to choose a method which best serves the story. Once chosen, return here.*

[Previous Exercise](obsidian://open?vault=STORY%20DEVELOPMENT%20TEMPLATE&file=C1E2) - [Next Exercise](obsidian://open?vault=STORY%20DEVELOPMENT%20TEMPLATE&file=C1E4)
#03_CHARACTER/ALESSANDRA



