> # WORK BACKWARD TO FIND YOUR ENDING
> 1. Start with the *final reveal*: What does the character discover that is most painful, shocking, surprising, or delightful? ==...==
> 2. *Where* did the person discover it? ==...==
> 3. What *physical clue* led her to that place? ==...==
> 4. What *was said* that triggered the character to search for that clue? ==...==
> 5. What *event* occurred that caused the character to speak the line? ==...==
> 6. What *problem* occurred that created that event? ==...==
> 7. How did the main character's *own actions* create that problem? ==...==
> 8. What *goal* did the main character have that caused her to behave badly enough to create this problem? ==...==
> 9. What *circumstances* in the main character's world inspired that goal? ==...==



# YOUR TURN
## WORK BACKWARD TO FIND YOUR ENDING
1. Start with the *final reveal*: What does the character discover that is most painful, shocking, surprising, or delightful? ==...==
2. *Where* did the person discover it? ==...==
3. What *physical clue* led her to that place? ==...==
4. What *was said* that triggered the character to search for that clue? ==...==
5. What *event* occurred that caused the character to speak the line? ==...==
6. What *problem* occurred that created that event? ==...==
7. How did the main character's *own actions* create that problem? ==...==
8. What *goal* did the main character have that caused her to behave badly enough to create this problem? ==...==
9. What *circumstances* in the main character's world inspired that goal? ==...==

[Previous Exercise](obsidian://open?vault=STORY%20DEVELOPMENT%20TEMPLATE&file=C1E7) - [Next Exercise]
#03_CHARACTER/ALESSANDRA
